owner’s manual revision: rev 00/sept 2021

customer assistance in our constant endeavour to provide assistance and complete  service backup, tata  motors has established an all india cus­ tomer assistance centre.    in case you have a query regarding any aspect of your vehicle,  our customer assistance centre will be glad to assist you on our  toll free no. 1800 209 8282you can also approach nearest tata  motors dealer.   a separate dealer network address booklet is provided with the  owner’s manual.  tata motors 24x7 roadside assistance program offers tech­ nical help in the event of a breakdown. call the toll-free road- side assistance.   for additional information, refer to "24x7 roadside assis- tance" section in the owner’s manual.

foreword dear customer,      welcome to the tata  motors family.      we congratulate you on the purchase of your new vehicle and are privileged to have you as our valued customer.     we urge you to read this owner's manual carefully and familiarize yourself with the equipment descriptions and operating instructions  before driving.       always carry out prescribed service / maintenance work as well as any required repairs at an authorized tata  motors dealers or  authorized service centre’s (tascs). use only genuine parts for continued reliability, safety and performance of your vehicle.      you are welcome to contact our dealer or customer assistance toll free no. (1800 209 8282) in case of any query or support required.      we wish you a safe and pleasant driving experience.

important information • before driving, read this owner’s manual carefully and familiarize yourself with your vehicle. for your own safety and a longer  ve-hicle life, follow the instructions, ‘warnings’ and ‘notes’ in this manual. ignoring them could result in damage to the or personal injury to you or others. • the owner’s manual and other booklets are important documents and should always be kept in the vehicle. if you sell the  vehicle, always pass on the documents to the new owner. • this owner's manual describes all variants of the model and all standard/optional equipment of your vehicle available at the time  of printing. please note that your vehicle may not be equipped with all features described. • tata motors passenger vehicle limited reserves the right to introduce changes in the design, equipment and technical  features without any obligation to install them on the vehicles previously sold. the equipment in your vehicle may therefore differ  from that shown in the descriptions and illustrations. • do not carry out any modification including fitment of non-genuine accessories on your vehicle. safety, handling, performance and  durability, may otherwise be adversely affected and may violate government regulations. tata motors passenger  vehicle limited no liability for damage resulting from the modifications or use of non-genuine accessories. • all rights reserved. the information in this manual shall not be copied, translated or otherwise reproduced, in whole or inpart  without written permission from tata motors. copyright   tata motors  2021

01. safetyimportant informationseat beltschild restraint system (crs)supplementary restraint system (srs) (airbags)  (if equipped) 12  child lock (if equipped) 18  anti-theft device immobilizer / peps 19  anti-lock braking system (abs) 20  electronic brake force distribution (ebd) 21  brake sway control (bsc) 21  stuck mode recovery (traction pro) (if applica­ ble) 2102. opening and closingkeys 25  smart key (if available) 27  smart key features 28  flip key 29  flip key features 3001. safetyimportant informationseat beltschild restraint system (crs)supplementary restraint system (srs) (airbags)  (if equipped) 12  child lock (if equipped) 18  anti-theft device immobilizer / peps 19  anti-lock braking system (abs) 20  electronic brake force distribution (ebd) 21  brake sway control (bsc) 21  stuck mode recovery (traction pro) (if applica­ ble) 2102. opening and closingkeys 25  smart key (if available) 27  smart key features 28  flip key 29  flip key features 30

01. safety,col1,col2
,important information,1
,seat belts,4
,child restraint system (crs),7
,supplementary restraint system (srs) (airbags) (if equipped),12
,child lock (if equipped),18
,anti-theft device immobilizer / peps,19
,anti-lock braking system (abs),20
,electronic brake force distribution (ebd),21
,brake sway control (bsc),21
,stuck mode recovery (traction pro) (if applica­ ble),21

col0,doors,31
,windows,32
,tail gate opening,36
,fuel lid,37

03. dashboard and features,col1,col2
,cockpit,39
,instrument cluster (tft screen),40
,instrument cluster (lcd screen),56
,tell tales,68
,audio reminders (as available),75
,combi-switch (rh stalk) (if available),76
,head lamp leveling rotary switch,77
,combi-switch (lh stalk) (if available),77
,dashboard controls,79
,steering mounted controls (lhs) (if available),80
,steering mounted controls (rhs) (if available),81
,mic (if available),83
,infotainment system display (if available),83
,speakers & tweeter (if available),84

02. opening and closing,col1,col2
,keys,25
,smart key (if available),27
,smart key features,28
,flip key,29
,flip key features,30

usb port (if available) 85  power socket (if available) 85  antenna 86  roof grab handle 86  roof lamp 87  boot lamp (if available) 87  front lamp 88  tail lamp 8804. stowage areasstorage compartment 89  hooks (if available) 94  tag holder (if available) 95  front seat back pockets (if available) 9505. climate controlair distribution 97  air vents 98  electronic temperature control (etc) (if avail­ able) 98usb port (if available) 85  power socket (if available) 85  antenna 86  roof grab handle 86  roof lamp 87  boot lamp (if available) 87  front lamp 88  tail lamp 8804. stowage areasstorage compartment 89  hooks (if available) 94  tag holder (if available) 95  front seat back pockets (if available) 9505. climate controlair distribution 97  air vents 98  electronic temperature control (etc) (if avail­ able) 98

col0,usb port (if available),85
,power socket (if available),85
,antenna,86
,roof grab handle,86
,roof lamp,87
,boot lamp (if available),87
,front lamp,88
,tail lamp,88

col0,fully automatic temperature control (fatc) (if available),100

06. starting and driving,col1,col2
,pre driving checks,107
,driving tips,108
,seat adjustments,110
,rear view mirrors,114
,orvm folding (as applicable),115
,sun visors (if available),116
,electric power assisted steering (epas),116
,steering wheel adjustment,117
,steering lock and ignition switch (if available),118
,starting and stopping (without peps),119
,starting and stopping (peps) (if available),120
,engine passive start - conditions,121
,engine passive stop - conditions,122
,gear shifting,122
,reverse gear,123
,driving,123

04. stowage areas,col1,col2
,storage compartment,89
,hooks (if available),94
,tag holder (if available),95
,front seat back pockets (if available),95

05. climate control,col1,col2
,air distribution,97
,air vents,98
,electronic temperature control (etc) (if avail­ able),98

automated manual transmission (amt) (if fit­ ted) 124  starting the engine 129  braking 130  drive mode 131  current gear indication 131  gear recommendation 132  idle stop start (iss) (if available) 133  parking brake 138  vehicle parking 139  reverse park assist with sensor (if available) 140  rear view camera (if available) 14207. emergency and breakdown assistanceemergency equipment 149  spare wheel removal process 151  in case of flat tyre 151  puncture repair kit (if available) 155  jump starting your car 162  towing 164automated manual transmission (amt) (if fit­ ted) 124  starting the engine 129  braking 130  drive mode 131  current gear indication 131  gear recommendation 132  idle stop start (iss) (if available) 133  parking brake 138  vehicle parking 139  reverse park assist with sensor (if available) 140  rear view camera (if available) 14207. emergency and breakdown assistanceemergency equipment 149  spare wheel removal process 151  in case of flat tyre 151  puncture repair kit (if available) 155  jump starting your car 162  towing 164

col0,automated manual transmission (amt) (if fit­ ted),124
,starting the engine,129
,braking,130
,drive mode,131
,current gear indication,131
,gear recommendation,132
,idle stop start (iss) (if available),133
,parking brake,138
,vehicle parking,139
,reverse park assist with sensor (if available),140
,rear view camera (if available),142

col0,fuses,166
,bulb specification,171
,24 x 7 road assistance,173

08. maintenance,col1,col2
,maintenance and service,177
,engine compartment (mt),178
,engine compartment (amt),178
,engine oil level,180
,brake fluid level,181
,engine coolant level,181
,checking amt oil reservoir level,182
,windshield washer fluid level,183
,battery,183
,spark plug (petrol),185
,tyres,185
,smart key battery replacement (for peps variant),188
,on board diagnostic (obd ii) system,189
,service instructions,190

07. emergency and breakdown assistance,col1,col2
,emergency equipment,149
,spare wheel removal process,151
,in case of flat tyre,151
,puncture repair kit (if available),155
,jump starting your car,162
,towing,164

service schedule  191  vehicle parking for long duration (non - use  maintenance) 19609. technical informationfuel specification 197  lubricant specification 198  technical specifications 200  vehicle dimensions 203  aggregate identification numbers 20410. vehicle care and value added servicescar care 205  fast tag 207  value care - amc 208  extended warranty 212  value added services 214  vehicle exterior enrichment 216  vehicle interior enrichment 217service schedule  191  vehicle parking for long duration (non - use  maintenance) 19609. technical informationfuel specification 197  lubricant specification 198  technical specifications 200  vehicle dimensions 203  aggregate identification numbers 20410. vehicle care and value added servicescar care 205  fast tag 207  value care - amc 208  extended warranty 212  value added services 214  vehicle exterior enrichment 216  vehicle interior enrichment 217

col0,service schedule,191
,vehicle parking for long duration (non - use maintenance),196

11. warranty - terms and conditions,col1,col2
,vehicle warranty: terms and conditions,219

12. environment safety,col1,col2
,environmental safety,221

09. technical information,col1,col2
,fuel specification,197
,lubricant specification,198
,technical specifications,200
,vehicle dimensions,203
,aggregate identification numbers,204

10. vehicle care and value added services,col1,col2
,car care,205
,fast tag,207
,value care - amc,208
,extended warranty,212
,value added services,214
,vehicle exterior enrichment,216
,vehicle interior enrichment,217

important information  in this owner’s manual, you will find the  text under the heading “warning” and  “note” which highlights important infor­ mation. pay particular attention to these  highlighted messages.noteindicates additional information that will  assist you in gaining the optimum ben­ efit and care for your vehicle.warningindicates procedures or information that  must be followed precisely in order to  avoid the possibility of severe personal  injury and serious damage to the vehi­ cle.safe driving   safety consciousness not only ensures  your safety and the safety of other road  users, but it also helps to reduce the wear  and tear on your vehicle.   safe driving depends on:how quickly you make decisions to  avoid an accident.  your ability to concentrate.how well you can see and judge ob­ jects.how well familiar you are with your ve­ hicle controls and its capabilities.  testnotefatigue is a result of physical or mental  exertion that impairs judgment. driver  fatigue may be due to inadequate  sleep, extended work hours, strenuous  work or non-work activities or combina­ tion of other factors. take rest at regular  intervals.safety tipsalways take into account the road con­ ditions, weather conditions, vehicle  speed in order to prevent accidents.turn ‘on’ the side indicators at least  30 meters before taking a turn or  changing the lane.decelerate to a safe speed before tak­ ing turn. do not apply brakes during  cornering.when overtaking other vehicles, watch  out for the oncoming vehicle.never drive under the influence of al­ cohol or drugs.if your vehicle is equipped with info­ tainment/navigation system, set and  make changes to your travel route only  when the vehicle is parked.program radio presets with the vehicle  parked, and use your programmed  presets to make radio use quicker and  simpler.

driving through water  do not drive through flooded areas. judge  the depth of water before driving through  it. otherwise, water may enter the vehicle  interior or the engine compartment. if at all  the situation demands that you have to  drive through water then;keep engine in higher rpm and crawl  the vehicle in low gear.flowing or rushing water creates  strong forces. driving through flowing  water could cause the vehicle to about  trying to drive through flowing water.lightly apply the brake pedal to dry the  liners until the brakes work normally  once you are out of water.warningdo not attempt to start the engine if ve­ hicle gets flooded due to water. tow the  vehicle to a safe place. contact a near­ est tata motors authorised service  centredriving on a rainy daycheck wiper blades, lights and brakes  for proper functioning and condition.check the tyre treads depth, the con­ dition of the tread and tyre.avoid harsh braking and sharp turns. it  may cause loss of control and lead to  a skid.for slowing down, shift to lower gears  • and brake gently.  keep lights ‘on’ if visibility is poor.  • driving on wet roads  on wet road or during light showers,  “aquaplaning” can occur. “aquaplaning” is  the loss of direct contact between the road  surface and the vehicle’s tires due to a  water film forming between them. steering  or braking the vehicle can be very difficult,  and loss of control can occur.  there is no  hard and fast rule about aquaplaning. the  best advice is to slow down when the road  is wet.noteif you have driven for a long time in  heavy rain without braking, there may  be a delayed reaction from the brakes  when braking for the first time. you have  to press the brake pedal more firmly.  maintain a greater distance from the ve­ hicle in front.night drivingensure that all lights are working and  windshield, window glasses are clean.drive more slowly at night than in the  daytime, as the visual range is re­ stricted at night. maintain a speed such  that you can stop within illuminated  distance of head lamps.do not use the high beam unless in­ evitable. it may dazzle the driver of the  oncoming vehicle, thus causing an ac­ cident.use head lamp main/dip beam to alert  other road users on turns/ cross roads.use side indicators for lane change or  turning.

driving on gradients  when climbing gradient, the vehicle may  begin to slow down and show a lack of  power. if this happens, shift to a lower gear  and apply power smoothly so that there is  no loss of traction. when driving down a  hill, the engine braking should be used by  shifting into a lower gear. do not drive in  neutral gear or switch off the engine.warningon long and steep gradients you must  reduce the load on the brakes by shift­ ing early to a lower gear. this allows  you to take advantage of the engine  braking effect and helps avoid over­ heating of service brakes resulting in re­ duced braking efficiency.driving on highway  stopping distance progressively, in­ creases with vehicle speed. maintain a  sufficient distance between your vehicle  and the vehicle ahead.  for long distance driving, perform safety  checks before starting a trip and take rest  at certain intervals to prevent fatigue.

seat belts  this section of user manual describes  your vehicle’s seat belt, airbag and child  restraints system. please read and follow  all these instructions carefully to minimise  risk of severe injury or death.seat belts are the primary restraints  system in the vehicle. all occupants,  including the driver, should always  wear their seat belts to minimize the  risk of injury.sit back and adjust the front seat.  • make sure that your seat is adjusted to  a good driving position and the back of  the seat is upright.  buckling the shoulder seat beltgrasp the tongue then slowly pull out  the seat belt over the shoulder and  across the chest. when the seat belt is  long enough to fit, insert the tongue  into the lock buckle until you hear a  “click” which indicates that the seat  belt is securely locked.position the lap portion of seat belt  across your pelvic bone, below yourabdomen. to remove slack, pull up a  bit on the shoulder seat belt. to loosen  the lap portion seat belt if it is too tight,  tilt the tongue and pull on the lap seat  belt. a snug seat belt reduces the risk  of sliding under the seat belt in a colli­ sion.  ensure that the seat belt running  over the body (shoulder segment and  lap segment) does not have any twist.  twisted seat belt may not offer effec­ tive protection when required.releasing the seat belt  to release the seat belt, push the red but­ ton on the lock buckle. the seat belt will  automatically retract to its stowed position.  if necessary, slide the tongue down the  webbing to allow the seat belt to retract  fully.notethe above image is for reference pur­ pose only.

fixed rear centre lap seat belt  when buckling, make sure you hear a  click confirming that the tab is latched into  the seat belt lock. to tighten it, pull the  loose end through the buckle until the seat  belt is comfortably adjusted around the  hips.warningeach seating position and seat belt  assembly must only be used by one  occupant. it is not recommended to  put a seat belt around a child, being  carried on an occupant’s lap.each seating position and seat beltbe careful not to damage or tamper  the seat belt webbing or hardware.  inspect the seat belt system period­ ically, checking for cuts, frays, or  loose parts. a frayed or torn seat  belt could rip apart in a collision and  leave you with no protection.be careful not to damage or tamperif the seat belt webbing or hardware  is damaged, get it replaced immedi­ ately at tata motors authorized  service centre.if the seat belt webbing or hardwaredo not insert any items such as  coins, clips, etc. into the seat belt  buckles, and be careful not to spill  liquids into these parts. if foreign  materials get into a seat belt buckle,  the seat belt will not work properly.do not insert any items such asdo not wear seat belts over hard,  sharp or fragile items in clothing,  such as pens, keys, spectacles etc.do not wear seat belts over hard,do not use any accessories on seat  belts or modify in any way the seat  belt system. devices claiming to im­ prove occupant comfort or reposi­ tion the seat belt can reduce the  protection provided by the seat belt  and increase the chance of serious  injury in a collision.do not use any accessories on seatseat belts with pre-tensioner (if  equipped)  you can use the pre-tensioner seat belts  in the same manner as ordinary seat belts.  the seat belt pre-tensioner system works  in conjunction with the supplementary  restraints system (srs-airbags).   in the event of a collision, as may be nec­essary, pre-tensioner tightens the seat belt  so that it fits the occupant’s body more  snugly. when pre-tensioner activates,  there could be some noise and release of  smoke. this is normal and there are no  health hazards or fire risk.warningin a collision, the pre-tensioner seat belt  assembly mechanisms becomes hot  during activation. do not touch the pre- tensioner seat belt assemblies for sev­ eral minutes after they have been  activated.if the vehicle has been involved in a colli­ sion, get it inspected immediately at au­ thorized  tata  motors  service  center.   seat belts with load limiter (if  equipped)  you can use the load limiter seat belts in  the same manner as ordinary seat belts.  the seat belt load limiter system works in  conjunction with the supplementary  restraints system (srs-airbags).

in the event of a collision, as may be nec­ essary, load limiter reduces the load on the  rib cage region of the occupant.  if the ve­ hicle has been involved in a collision, get  it inspected immediately at authorised  tata motors service center.  use of seat belts for pregnant  womanwarningpregnant woman must wear a cor­ rectly positioned seat belt. it is safer  for mother as well as unborn child.pregnant woman must wear a cor­pregnant woman should wear the  lap part of the seat belt across the  pelvic bone and as snug across the  hips as possible. keep the seat belt  low so that it does not come across  the abdomen. that way the strong  bones of the hips will take the force  if there is a collision.pregnant woman should wear theseat belt warning lamp                                        for driver         for front seat                        passenger  the seat belt warning lamp reminds you to  fasten the seat belt.if the driver does not fasten seat belt,  seat belt reminder lamp will blink and  a buzzer will sound for predefined du­ ration until the driver seat belt is buck­ led.if front passenger seat is occupied by  adult and does not fasten seat belt,  seat belt reminder lamp will blink and  a buzzer will sound for predefined du­ ration until the front passenger seat  belt is buckled.if this system is also provided for other  than front row seats, applicable above  warning will appear until seat belts are  buckled.if this system is also provided for otherif front passenger seat is occupied by  child, system may detect occupancy  and warn with front passenger seat  belt warning. it is not taken to mean  child can occupy front passenger seat  and use seat belt. please refer crs  section for recommended seating po­ sition.if front passenger seat is occupied bynoteusing unauthorized after-market seat  cover may affect function of occupant  sensor. tata motors does not rec­ ommended any non-validated seat  cover on seats.

child restraint system (crs)  tata motors strongly recommends the  use of child restraint systems (crs) for  all children up to age of 12 years and to be  placed at recommended positions only.  children travelling without recommended  crs and seated at other positions may  face serious injuries in case of a collision.  crs can be installed in the vehicle using  seat belts and/or isofix only (if equipped)  or isofix with top tether (if equipped) or  isofix with support leg.  if the child seat is equipped with support  leg(s), always fit the support leg(s) directly  to the floor. never fit support leg(s) to a  footrest or on any other object.  the harness system of crs holds the  child in place, and in a collision, acts to  keep the child positioned in the seat and  reduce the risk of injuries.  all children below age of two years must  always ride in a rear-facing infant crs.  keep children in a forward-facing crs  with a harness until they reach the size or  weight limit allowed by your crs manu­facturer.  once your child outgrows the forward-fac­ ing crs, your child is ready for a booster  seat.  selection and installation of crs  always select the crs that complies with  latest safety standards (ais072 / ece  r44). the crs are classified according to  the child’s size, height and weight. select  the appropriate crs for your child. ensure  that the crs is securely installed in the  vehicle and subsequently child fits prop­ erly in it and wears harness of crs. for  installation, please refer crs manufac­ turer’s instruction manual.

notethe above images are for reference  purpose only.

recommended crs position as per  the vehicle matrix  the suitability of seat position for carriage  of children and recommended category of  crs is shown in the table below as per the  child group.  x - seat position not suitable for children  in this age group.  u - suitable for “universal” category re­ straints approved for use in this age group.  l -  suitable for particular child restraints.  these restraints may be of the specific ve­ hicle, restricted or semi-universal cate­ gories.  universal is a category in the ais072 /  ece r44 norm.warningif a child is seated in the front seat it  may cause serious injury or even death  during any collision.

col0,col1,col2,col3,col4,col5,safety
group,mass group,age group,front passen­ ger,rear out­ board l h,rear out­ board r h,rear center
0,up to 10 kg,up to 9 months,x,u,u,x
0+,up to 13 kg,up to 24 months,x,"u,l","u,l",x
i,9 to 18 kg,9 months to 48 months,x,"u,l","u,l",x
ii,15 to 25 kg,approx. 3 to 7 years,x,u,u,x
iii,22 to 36 kg,approx. 6 to 12 years,x,u,u,x

warningif your vehicle is equipped with a front  passenger airbag (pab) and does not  have pab deactivation switch, do not in­ stall a rear-facing crs in the front pas­ senger seat. if the pab inflates, a child  in a rear facing crs could be seriously  injured or killed.if you install a crs in the rear seat, slide  the front seat far enough forward so that  the child’s feet do not touch the front seat­ back. this will help avoid injury to the child  in the event of a collision.notechildren could be endangered in a col­ lision if their crs is not properly se­ cured in the vehicle. be sure to secure  the child in the restraint system accord­ ing to the manufacturer’s instructions.warningdo not use an infant carrier or a child  safety seat that “hooks“ over a seat­ back, it will not provide adequate pro­ tection in a collision.after a collision, we recommend to get  seat belts, seats, isofix and top-tether  anchorages (as may be applicable) inves­ tigated at tata motors authorised serv­ ice centre.notecrs in a closed vehicle can become  very hot. to prevent burns, check the  seating surface and buckles before  placing your child in crs.warningdo not leave unattended children in  your vehicle.do not leave unattended children indo not modify crs in any way.notedo not install a booster seat or a  booster cushion with only the lap  strap of the seat belt.do not install a booster seat or ado not install a booster seat or a  booster cushion with a seat belt that  is slack or twisted.do not install a booster seat or ado not put the safety seat belt under  your child’s arm or behind its back.do not put the safety seat belt underdo not use pillows, books or towels  to boost your child’s height.do not use pillows, books or towelsmake sure that your children sit in  an upright position.make sure that your children sit indo not allow children to stand up or  kneel on either the rear or the front  seats. an unrestrained child could  suffer serious or fatal injuries during  a collision.do not allow children to stand up ordo not leave any toys or other ob­ jects loose in the crs or on the seat  while the vehicle is in motion.do not leave any toys or other ob­

each crs should be used for one child  only.  if the airbag srs warning indicator in the  instrument cluster illuminates continu­ ously, it means that there is malfunction in  the system. remove the crs from front  passenger seat and contact your tata  motors authorised service center.notethe above images are for reference  purpose only.

supplementary  restraintsystem  (srs)  (airbags)  (ifequipped)the airbag ‘srs’ system comprises of the  following components depending upon the  provided safety features in your vehicle.  seat belt pre-tensioners..  • seat belt with load limiters.  • driver airbag.  • front passenger airbag.  •airbag ‘srs’ ecu (electronic control  • unit).  collision sensors.  • srs wiring harness.  • srs warning lamp  • the system is active when ignition switch  is in the “on” position or the ignition mode  is “on”.  airbags are designed to inflate in collisions  when required. in the event of a collision,  the collision sensors will detect signals,  and if the airbag ecu judges that the sig­ nals represent a severe collision, will trig­ ger the airbags. the inflated airbagsprovide a cushion to the occupants. the  airbag inflates and deflates so quickly that  you may not even realize that it has acti­ vated. the airbag will neither hinder your  view nor make it harder to exit the vehicle.  airbag inflation is virtually instantaneous  and occurs with considerable force, ac­ companied by loud noise and smoke,  which is normal. the inflated airbag, to­ gether with seat belts, limit the movement  of an occupant, thereby reducing the risk  of injury.  when an airbag inflates, you may see  some smoke-like particles. the particles  are a normal by-product of the process  that generates the non-toxic gas used for  airbag inflation. these airborne particles  may irritate the skin, eyes, nose, or throat.  if you have skin or eye irritation, rinse the  area with water. for nose or throat irrita­ tion, move to fresh air. also sometimes the  smoke can cause breathing problems. in  such cases, it is recommended to get  fresh air promptly.  after inflation, airbag provides a gradual  cushioning effect for the occupant there­after deflates. it is not advisable to drive  your vehicle after the airbags have been  deployed. if you are involved in another  collision, the airbags will not be in place to  protect you.notethe above image is for reference pur­ pose only.noteopen your windows and doors as  soon as possible after collision to reopen your windows and doors as

duce prolonged exposure to the  smoke and powder released by the  inflating airbag.do not touch the airbag container’s  internal components immediately  after an airbag has inflated. the  parts that come into contact with an  inflating airbag may be very hot.always wash exposed skin areas  thoroughly with lukewarm water and  mild soap.the driver airbag is mounted in the centre  of the steering wheel. the front passenger  airbag is located inside the dashboard in  front of the passenger seat. the vehicle fit­ ted with the airbags have suitable indica­ tions on steering wheel and on dash  board. the word ‘airbag’ is embossed  on the airbag covers.warningeven in vehicles with airbags, you  and your passengers must always  wear the seat belts provided. ineven in vehicles with airbags, youorder to minimize the risk and sever­ ity of injury in the event of a collision.always use seat belts and crs –  during every trip and at all times.  even with airbags, you can be seri­ ously injured or killed in a collision if  you are not wearing seat belt prop­ erly or not wearing seat belt when  airbag inflates.you and your passengers should  never sit or lean unnecessarily close  to the airbags.move your seat as far back as pos­ sible from front airbags, while still  maintaining control of the vehicle.all occupants should sit upright with  the seatback in an upright position,  centred on the seat cushion with  their seat belt on, legs comfortably  extended and their feet on the floor  until the vehicle is parked and the  engine is turned off.if an occupant is out of position dur­ ing collision, the rapidly deploying  airbag may forcefully contact theoccupant causing serious or fatal in­ juries.do not allow the front passenger to  place their feet or legs on the dash­ board.not recommended seating position



noteall images are for reference purpose  only.warningnever place your arm over the  airbag as a deploying airbag can re­ sult in serious arm fractures or other  injuries.never place your arm over thedo not place or stick any item/s in  the vehicle, except at designated lo­ cations (such as utility bins, cup/bot­ tle holders, boot space etc). loose  items may act as a projectile during  a collision and cause severe to fatal  injuries.do not place or stick any item/s inplease be aware that any unse­ cured item in your vehicle, such as  your pet, unsecured crs or a lap­ top, can become a potential hazard  in the event of a collision or sudden  stop, causing injuries to occupants  in the vehicle.please be aware that any unse­coat hooks (if provided), must be  used only for that purpose. never  hang heavy items on to those  hooks. this may lead to severe to  fatal injuries.coat hooks (if provided), must bealways contact your tata mo­ tors authorised service centre if  the vehicle is damaged, even if  airbag has not inflated.always contact your tata mo­always contact your tata mo­ tors authorised service centre if  any part of an airbag module cover  shows sign of cracking or damage.always contact your tata mo­warningif your srs malfunctions, the airbag  may not inflate properly during a colli­ sion thereby increasing risk of serious  injury or death. if any of the following  conditions occur, your srs is mal-func­ tioning:g the srs warning lamp does notg p turn ‘on’ when the ignition switch is  placed in the ‘on’ position for few  seconds.the srs warning lamp stays ‘on’  after illuminatingthe srs warning lamp stays ‘on’the srs warning lamp comes  ‘on’/stays ‘on’ while the vehicle is  in motion.the srs warning lamp comesthe srs warning lamp blinks when  the engine is running.the srs warning lamp blinks whenwe recommend the customer to imme­ diately visit tata motors authorised  service centre and get the srs system  inspected if any of the above conditions  occur.warningnever make any modifications to  your vehicle. the modifications car­ ried out, but not limited to the vehi­ cle frame, bumpers, front fenders,  ride height, suspension, seat belts,  interior trims, steering wheel (espe­ cially holders), are not acceptable.  this will affect the intended perform­ ance of srs system.never make any modifications to

fitment of bull bars is strictly prohib­ ited, unless authorised by tata mo­ tors. this will affect the intended  performance of srs system.fitment of bull bars is strictly prohib­if you need to make any modifica­ tions to accommodate any disability  you may have, please contact your  authorized tata motors dealer  for necessary guidance.if you need to make any modifica­do not tamper with srs in any way.  this will lead to unexpected per­ formance of system and may cause  serious injury or death.do not tamper with srs in any way.airbag warning sticker on front pas­ senger sun visorthe airbag warning symbol on sun visor  reminds extreme hazards associated with  the use of rearward-facing child restraint  on front passenger seat during airbag de­ ployment.  it is not taken to mean child can occupy  front passenger seat and use seat belt.  please refer crs section for recom­mended seating position.warningnever use a rearward facing child re­ straint on a seat protected by an active  airbag in front of it, death or serious in­ jury to the child can occur.

airbags deployment conditions   when front airbags (if equipped)  should not deploy?  minor frontal collision: seat belt (if worn)  offers adequate occupant protection in low  severity collisions. the airbags are trig­ gered only when there is a collision severe  enough to trigger the airbags. deployment  of frontal airbags is not beneficial in low  severity collisions.  side collision: during a side collision, oc­ cupants tend to move sideways. there­ fore, deploying frontal airbags in such  situations will not benefit the occupants.  rear collision: during a rear collision, oc­ cupants tend to move (rearwards) away  from frontal airbags. therefore, deploying  frontal airbags in such situations will not  benefit the occupant protection. head re­ straints and seat belts provide occupant  protection during a rear collision.  rollovers collision: during a rollover col­ lision, unbelted occupants may float inside  the passenger compartment. this will in­ crease the risk of injuries and may provehighly effective occupant protection during  rollover collision. front airbags are not de­ signed to deploy in a rollover as frontal  airbags cannot offer any protection in  rollover collision.  when front airbags deploy with minor  or no visible vehicle damage?the airbags are triggered only when there  is a collision severe enough to trigger the  airbags. the extent of vehicle damage is  not always the correct indicator for airbag  deployment. in some extreme/rare condi­ tions; of rough road driving, running into a  curb or hitting other fixed objects; the  airbags may deploy depending upon the  severity of collision. in some of these con­ ditions, damage to the vehicle may be  minor or not be readily visible.  when front airbags not deploy, even  with exterior visible vehicle damage?  the airbags are triggered only when there  is a collision severe enough to trigger the  airbags. the amount of visible vehicle  damage is not always the correct indicator  for airbag deployment. some collisions  can result in visible damage but no airbagdeployment because the airbags would  not have been needed or would not have  provided protection even if they had de­ ployed.  seat belts, if worn, offer adequate occu­ pant protection in such cases.

child lock (if equipped)both the rear doors of the vehicle are pro­ vided with a child proof lock. push the lock  lever located on vertical face of the door  downward before closing the door. the  door which has been locked by activating  the child lock cannot be opened from in­ side, it can be opened only from the out­ side.notelift the lock lever upward to deacti­ vate the childproof lock when not re­ quired.lift the lock lever upward to deacti­child safety lever to be used for  safety of child for preventing them to  open rear door while seating in pas­ senger seat to avoid accident while  vehicle is running.child safety lever to be used for

anti-theft device immobilizer  / peps  immobilizer system is designed to pre-vent  vehicle theft by electronically disabling the  engine ignition system. the engine can be  started only with vehicle’s original immobi­ lizer ignition key which has an electronic  identification programmed code.noteuse only flip key, the other should be  kept in a safe location. note down “key  tag no.” information (and keep it safe)  which  is  required  while  getting  new/spare keys. remember that it is  not possible to prepare new/spare keys  without the “key tag number.” take pre­ caution about flip key, as without flip  key vehicle cannot be started.use only flip key, the other should be  kept in a safe location. note down “key  tag no.” information (and keep it safe)  which  is  required  while  getting

col0,col1,col2,safety
vehicle condition,immobilizer lamp sta­ tus,vehicle state,meaning / function of the state
ignition off,blinking,locked,vehicle immobilized and awaiting electronic key
ignition on,off,unlocked,normal condition and ready to start the vehi­ cle
ignition on,on,locked,• problem with key (wrong key used to start vehicle) • problem with immobilizer system. con­ tact a tata motors authorized serv­ ice centre.
ignition on,blinking,unlocked,contact a tata motors authorized serv­ ice centre immediately.

anti-lock braking system  (abs)      abs regulates brake pres­ sure in such a way that the  wheels do not lock when you  brake. this allows you to continue steering  the vehicle when braking.  the abs warning lamp in the instrument  cluster lights up when the ignition is  switched on. it goes out when the engine  is running.warningif abs   is faulty, the wheels  could lock when braking. the steer  ability and braking characteristics  may be severely impaired. there is  an increased danger of skidding and  accidents.if abs   is faulty, the wheelsdrive on carefully. have abs  checked immediately at a tata mo­ tors authorized service centre as  soon as possible.drive on carefully. have abswhile brakingif abs intervenes: continue to press  the brake pedal vigorously until the  braking situation is over.to make a full brake application: press  • the brake pedal with full force.  if abs intervenes when braking, you will  feel a pulsing in the brake pedal. the pul­ sating brake pedal can be an indication of  hazardous road conditions, and functions  as a reminder to take extra care while driv­ ing.warningthe stopping distance required for  vehicles with abs may be slightly  more than conventional brake sys­ tem but abs will still offer the advan­ tage of helping you maintain  directional control.the stopping distance required forhowever, remember that abs will  not compensate for bad road or  weather conditions or poor driver  judgment. drive within safety mar­ gins taking into consideration intohowever, remember that abs willconsideration prevailing weather  and traffic conditions.

electronic brake force dis­ tribution (ebd)      ebd monitors and controls the  brake pressure on the rear  wheels to improve driving stability while  braking.  ebd provides optimal braking pressure  distribution between front and rear wheels  to optimize braking distance and to ensure  vehicle stability by means of lowering  braking pressure increase at rear wheels.warningif ebd    is malfunctioning, the  rear wheels can lock, e.g. under full  braking. this increases the risk of  skidding and an accident.if ebd    is malfunctioning, theyou should therefore adapt your  driving style to the different handling  characteristics. have the brake sys­ tem checked immediately at a tata  motors authorized service cen­ tre as soon as possible.you should therefore adapt yourbrake sway control (bsc)  detects tendency of instability during brak­ ing in abs-alone vehicles by monitoring in­ dividual wheel.  enhances vehicle stability by controlling  braking pressure on individual wheels dur­ ing partial braking.stuck mode recovery (trac­ tion pro) (if applicable)  traction pro mode helps the driver to get  the vehicle moving if one of the front  wheels is continuously spinning because  of low grip from the road surface. this sit­ uation may arise due to road undulation,  snow, mud, or any low friction surface.  these situations are automatically identi­ fied by abs driven traction pro mode and  pop-up windows on the infotainment sys­ tem support the driver.  driver can activate the traction pro mode  and take the vehicle out of the stuck situ­ ation without any external assistance.  once activated, the driver will be guided of  further steps via the infotainment unit itself.  traction pro mode can be used only in the  forward direction and cannot be used if  both front wheels are spinning.cautionplease use traction pro mode cau­ tiously in extreme conditions where  vehicle digs deep into the groundplease use traction pro mode cau­

which can cause vehicle body to  touch the ground.during activation of traction pro  mode, service brake may not deliver  normal braking performance at very  low speed. in case vehicle rolls back  on slope please be ready to use  hand brake.do not press brake and accelerator  pedal together except where trac­ tion pro mode is activatedif vehicle is stuck with one wheel continu­ ously spinning, you will receive the notifi­ cation pop up (in below image) to activate  the traction pro mode.in case you select “yes”, traction pro  mode will be activated and you can follow  the instructions to take the vehicle out of  stuck situation    if vehicle comes out of stuck situation, no­ tification pop up as seen in below image.mode at any point of time of activation by  pressing deactivate button which results in  notification pop up as seen in the below  image.    in case there is any system temperature  high is identified during the operation of  traction pro mode, traction pro mode will  be disabled temporarily for around 2 min­ utes.

if the terrain is beyond physical limit of the  traction pro mode, notification pop up as  described in below image will be displayed  on the infotainment system. please take  external aid to tow the car in this situation.



keys  a key is an electronic access and authori­ zation system available as a standard fea­ ture with your vehicle.  unlocking principle  the transponder in the ignition key carries  a unique identification code (uid). the  vehicle unlocks when the code on the key  matches with the code on the engine man­ agement sys-tem (ems). in case of peps  variant, immobilizer function is provided by  peps ecu.  engine starting  when the key is inserted and the ignition  is switched to ‘on’, all codes are commu­ nicated within key, immobilizer and ems.  the engine will start only if all the codes  match.  loss of keysif one of the keys is lost, contact the tata  motors authorized dealer/service cen­ ter immediately.warningdo not turn ‘on’ ignition switch by  using key with any type of metal  wound around its grip or in contact  with it. this may be detected as ab­ normal condition by immobilizer and  prevent engine from starting.do not turn ‘on’ ignition switch bydo not leave the key in high temper­y g p ature areas. the transponder in it  will  behave  abnormally  whenreused.do not try to start the vehicle when  the immobilizer indicator lamp on  the instrument cluster is glowing. in  this condition the vehicle will not  start and the vehicle’s battery will  also be drained due to frequent  cranking.do not try to start the vehicle when



sn,name,remote key,col3,col4,description
1,mechanical key,,,,1. locking all doors 2. unlocking all doors
2,smart key (peps),,,,1. locking all doors 2. approach light 3. tail gate opening 4. unlocking all doors
3,flip key,,,,1. unlock 2. approach light /follow me 3. lock 4. key blade in / out button

smart key (if available)    keep the smart key with user to perform  the passive access. it is used for locking,  unlocking and starting the vehicle.  locking all doors  1. approach light  2.tail gate opening  3. unlocking all doors 4.locking all doors  press the lock button once (1) to lock all  the doors of the vehicle.  successful lock will be indicated by two  flashes of turn signal indicators.  approach light  this feature helps to find and reach the  parked vehicle.  when you press approach light button (2)  once, position lamps or low beam and po­ sition lamps will turn ‘on’.  to switch ‘off’ the approach lights, press  and release the same button or it automat­ ically turns ‘off’ after certain time.  tail gate openingpress the tail gate opening button once (3)  to unlock the tailgate.unlocking all doors  press the unlock button once (4) to unlock  all the doors.  successful unlock will be indicated by one  flashes of turn signal indicators.noteif smart key battery is low/drained or ve­ hicle battery is low/drained, user can  unlock and enter into vehicle by using  mechanical key blade, which is present  inside the smart key.

key blade in/out    slide the knob (1) to release the key. pull  the key blade (2) out.smart key features  force panic on operation  when vehicle is in off condition, if we  press lock button and unlock button simul­ taneously, force panic operation gets ac­ tivated. in this case, turn indicators of  vehicle start flashing and horn will blow au­ tomatically.  force panic off operation  by pressing any button of smart key, force  panic operation gets deactivated.  vehicle search  in vehicle locked condition, if lock button  on smart key is pressed, the turn indica­ tors of vehicle flashes 4 times.  automatic activation of immobilizer  if smart key is not found within the passen­ ger compartment, engine will be immobi­ lized and vehicle cannot start.  auto locking / unlocking of doors /  auto relock  in peps variants, door will get unlocked  when ignition is off by pressing start  stop switch.anti-grab / anti-scan coding  the remote control set of this security sys­ tem is protected against the use of devices  called ‘scanners’ and ‘grabbers’ which can  record and reproduce some types of re­ mote codes.  importantdon’t operate unlock button of remote  in the vicinity of your vehicle, as it  could lead to an unintentional unlock­ ing your vehicle.for battery, replacement procedure  refer ‘maintenance’ section.do not remove the battery connection  • of the vehicle while the vehicle has  been locked by remote.  smart key precautionsif smart key is close to radio transmitter  1. such as radio station or an airport  which can interfere with normal opera­ tion of the transmitter.if smart key is near a mobile two way  2. radio system or a cellular phone, then  it will not work properly.

operated close to your vehicle, signal  will fluctuate.warningkeep smart key away from electromag­ netic materials that blocks electromag­ netic waves to the key surface.flip key    unlock  1. approach light /follow me/trunk lid  2. lock  3. key blade in / out button  4. 1. unlocking all doors  to unlock all doors, press unlock push-but­ ton (1) once. unlocking will be confirmed  by single flash of turn indicators.  2. approach light / follow me  press approach light button (2) once, low  beam, park and roof lamp will turn ‘on’ for60 seconds (default setting). this feature  helps to find and reach the parked vehicle  or to reach home in dark/ cloudy condition  after parking. red led will be flashed on  the remote. to switch ‘off’ the approach  lights, press and release the same button  or it automatically turns ‘off’ after 60 sec­ onds.  tail gate opening (if equipped)  electric tail gate opening can be done  through long press (4 sec) approach light  button on remote key.  3. locking all doors  to lock all doors, press lock push-button  (3) once. locking will be con-firmed by two  flashes of turn indicators.  if lock button is pressed on the remote key  with the driver door open, locking-unlock­ ing takes place with audible warning  sound. if any other door is open, the vehi­ cle gets locked but indicators do not flash.  4. folding key blade in / out  press button (4) to flip out the key blade.  for folding, press the button (4) and fold  the key blade inside.

notekey blade should not be folded without  pressing the button. also, it should not  be forced in any direction apart from  folding direction to avoid damage to flip  mechanism.manual operation of central door  locking / unlocking  all doors can be locked / unlocked operat­ ing driver door using either key blade from  outside or knob from inside.flip key features  vehicle search  in vehicle locked condition if lock button on  remote key is pressed the turn indicators  of vehicle flashes 4 times.  force panic on operation  force panic on operation when vehicle  is in off condition, if we press lock button  and unlock button simultaneously, force  panic operation gets activated. in this  case, turn indicators of vehicle start flash­ ing and horn will blow automatically. force  panic off operation.  force panic off operation  by pressing any button of flip key, force  panic operation gets deactivated  automatic activation of immobilizer  if key is removed from ignition, the engine  will be immobilized automatically even if  you forget to lock the vehicle.  auto locking / unlocking of doors /  auto relock  vehicle doors get automatically locked  when all doors are closed and the vehiclespeed crosses 10 kmph.  when ignition key is taken out all the doors  get automatically unlocked.  also, when unlocked with remote key and  if no door is opened within 30 seconds, ve­ hicle doors get automatically locked.  anti-grab / anti-scan coding  the remote control set of this security sys­ tem is protected against the use of devices  called ‘scanners’ and ‘grabbers’ which can  record and reproduce some types of re­ mote codes.  important  don’t operate unlock push-button of re­ mote while in the vicinity of your vehicle,  as it could lead to an unintentional unlock­ ing your vehicle.  don’t use discharged batteries in remote,  as it could damage the remote.   for battery replacement procedure refer  maintenance section.  don’t remove the battery connection of the  vehicle while the vehicle has been locked  by remote.

doors  door lock and unlock with key (if  available)  the front doors can be locked or un- locked from outside using the key blade.    insert the key in the slot and turn it clock­ wise to lock and anticlockwise to unlock  the door.door locking and unlocking using  door handle switch (dhs)  to lock/unlock all the doors without oper­ ating smart key button/ key blade. press  the door handle switch (dhs) provided on  the driver door to lock/unlock all the four  doors including tail gate.to open the door, press the lever provided  inside the handle and pull.  noteauthentication range for smart key  ranges from 1 to 1.5 meters from  outside the respective door or tail  gate.authentication range for smart keypassive entry works only when igni­ tion is off.passive entry works only when igni­rear door opening  door opening handle is provided on the  side of the window.

locking without a key from inside  all the doors can also be locked from in­ side by pressing lever on driver door and  independently on other doors respectively.opening the doors from inside  all doors can be opened from inside. to  open, pull the door opening lever. all doors  can be unlocked by pulling the inside re­ lease lever to the intermediate position.  when it is further articulated will unlatch  the door and can be opened.windows  power windows (if available)    front window winding switch (left)  1. front window winding switch (right)  2. rear window winding switch (left)  3. rear window winding switch (right)  4. inhibit switch  5. window glasses on all four doors can be  operated by switches provided on the  main control panel located on the driver’s  arm rest. they work only when the key is  in the ‘ign on’ position.

notepower windows can be operated for 30  seconds in ‘ign off’ and ‘key out’  positions, provided the doors are  closed.express down (if available)  window glasses can be opened by a sin­ gle long press of the switch. express down  feature is provided for the driver’s door  only.individual switches  individual window winding switches have  been provided on the front passenger and  rear doors.  glasses are wound up or down by pulling  or pressing the switch.warningwhile raising the glass, take care to  avoid fingers/hands getting trapped be­ tween glass and the door frame.inhibit switch  inhibit switch on   when switch is pressed,  amber light turns ‘on’.  the individual switches  provided on rear and  front passenger door

cannot be operated. however, it can be  operated from the switches on driver’s arm  rest  inhibit switch off  when switch is pressed,  amber light turns ‘off’.  the individual switches  provided on rear and  front passenger door can be operated. it  can also be operated from the switches on  driver’s arm rest..warningif children operate the windows they could be get trapped, particularly if they are left unsupervised. there is a risk of injury.if children operate the windows theyactivate the window inhibit feature when children are travel-ling. when leaving the vehicle, always take the key with you and lock the vehicle. never leave children unsupervised in the vehicle.activate the window inhibit featuremanual window winding (if available)  use window winder handle for lowering or  raising up window glasses manually where  power windows are not provided.opening the bonnetmake sure that the engine is switched 1. off and vehicle is in neutral gear with the parking brake applied.pull the bonnet release lever. the bon­ 2. net will pop up slightly. for mt

for amtlift the bonnet slightly and with your  3. finger and slide the secondary lock  lever located under the center of the  bonnetnotemake sure that the wiper arms are not  raised and not operate before you lift up  the bonnet to avoid damaging the wiper  arms and the bonnet.lift the bonnet up. pull the bonnet stay  4. rod from its clip and put the free end  into the slot provided on frame.warningthe stay rod can be hot enough to  burn your finger right after driving.  touch the rod after it becomes cool  enough.the stay rod can be hot enough toput the stay rod into the hole cor­ rectly. if the rod drops off, your body  may be caught below the bonnet.put the stay rod into the hole cor­deactivate the idle stop start (iss)  function for any operation to be per­ formed in the engine compartment.deactivate the idle stop start (iss)

closingto close the bonnet, hold the bon-net  1. by one hand, disengage the stay rod  and clamp it back properly.lower the bonnet close to the bumper,  2. then let it drop down.warningmake sure that the bonnet is correctly  locked or it can fly up unexpectedly  when you drive.tail gate openingnotesome variants may have multiple op­ tions.option i    to release the tailgate, press the tail gate  button on the remote.notepress the tail gate button on smart key  and press the tail gate door handleswitch within 30 seconds to open it.option ii    if the vehicle is locked, tail gate is closed  and tail gate dhs switch is pressed with  valid smart key in the authentication range  the tail gate gets unlatched.  on closing the tail gate door, it gets locked.  while closing the tail gate, if doors are in  locked condition and valid smart key is in­ side the trunk, then tail gate gets unlocked.

noteonce tail gate is opened, it will not  get locked automatically with other  doors.once tail gate is opened, it will notif the doors are unlocked, the tail  gate can be unlocked via tail gate  handle switch without smart key.if the doors are unlocked, the taildo not keep the smart key in the  boot when you close the tail gate.do not keep the smart key in thewarningtail gate can’t be locked using mechan­ ical key/ flip key/ smart key. it has to be  locked by slamming it.option iii  emergency tailgate opening  in emergency situation like key or vehicle  battery is discharged or electrical malfunc­ tioning, you can unlock the tailgate from in­ side as per procedure given below:open driver door using mechanical  1. key.open driver door using mechanical  1.open the rear door.  2. fold the rear seat.  3.and access the tailgate opening lever  4. from inside.turn the lever clockwise to unlatch and  5. open the tailgate.notethis can be used in emergency situa­ tion when you are inside the vehicle.fuel lid    to release the fuel flap, pull the lever lo­ cated at the right hand side below the  driver seat.  for opening, open the fuel cap, turn it  counter clockwise.  for closing, turn the fuel cap clockwise  and gently push the fuel flap till it gets  locked.

warningfuel vapor is extremely hazardous.  always switch ‘off’ the engine be­ fore refueling and never refill near  sparks or open flames. do not use  cell phone when you fill fuel.fuel vapor is extremely hazardous.do not continue adding fuel after the  automatic shut ‘off’ function is op­ erated if it is equipped on the fuel  station. overfilling the fuel tank  could damage the fuel system.do not continue adding fuel after thenoteto fill up the fuel, the engine must  be stopped by turning off the igni­ tion key / start-stop button. if the  engine is in idle stop start (iss)  mode, it may restart automatically  while filling the fuel.to fill up the fuel, the engine mustremove the fuel filler cap slowly,  and wait for any hissing to stop. the  fuel may be under pressure and  may spray out.remove the fuel filler cap slowly,if fuel cap needs replacement, make  sure that it is replaced by a genuine  cap at the tata motors author­ ized service center.if fuel cap needs replacement, make

cockpit  1 a.c. air vent  2 airbag (pab) 3 infotainment display (if available) 4 steering controls (if available) 5 instrument cluster  6 combi-switch  7 horn pad 8 fascia switch (if available) 9 driver side utility pocket  10 start - stop switch (if available) 11 airbag (dab)  12 controls 13 foot rest 14 usb port  15 parking brake lever 16 glove box 17 gear shift lever 18 etc / fatc (as available) 19 hazard warning switch  20 center air vent

1,a.c. air vent
2,airbag (pab)
3,infotainment display (if available)
4,steering controls (if available)
5,instrument cluster
6,combi-switch
7,horn pad
8,fascia switch (if available)
9,driver side utility pocket
10,start - stop switch (if available)
11,airbag (dab)
12,controls
13,foot rest
14,usb port
15,parking brake lever
16,glove box
17,gear shift lever
18,etc / fatc (as available)
19,hazard warning switch
20,center air vent

instrument cluster (tft screen)                                                     note: all indicators shown may not be applicable to your vehicle.

speedometer    speedometer indicates the vehicle speed  in kmph.noteat every key in and ignition on, the in­ strument cluster needles and gauges  move to max. and return to ‘0‘ position.  this is a welcome strategy and a self- check feature.tachometer  tachometer indicates engine speed in rev­ olutions per min (rpm).warningdo not drive the vehicle with a high en­ gine rpm. this may cause damage to  the engine and reduce its life.fuel gauge  when the ignition switch is in “on” posi­ tion, fuel gauge gives an approximate in­dication of the amount of fuel in the fuel  tank. in indication window, “f” stands for  full and “e” stands for empty.    when fuel in the tank nears empty, low  fuel warning tell-tale light glows. fill fuel as  soon as possible.notedo a check of the fuel level when  the vehicle is stationary on a level  road.do a check of the fuel level whenthe fuel level displayed can vary  when you drive on inclines, curves,the fuel level displayed can vary

brake and accelerate suddenly. this  is due to the movement of fuel in the  tank. the low fuel warning lamp  may turn to on or off earlier or  later than usual.warningif there is any defect in the system, low  fuel warning symbol will blink. take your  vehicle to the nearest tata motors  authorized dealer/service center.temperature gauge  when the ignition switch is in the “on” po­ sition, this gauge indicates the engine  coolant temperature.the indicator should be within the normal,  acceptable temperature range i.e. be­ tween “h” and “c”. if the indicator ap­ proaches “h”, overheating is indicated by  a red progress bar.engine coolant temperature tell-tale light  flashes and you will hear an audio warn­ ing. in this case, stop the vehicle, switch  the engine ‘off’ and allow it to cool down  for some time. contact the nearest tata  motors authorized service centre im­ mediately for rectification.warningthe red progress bar indicates over  heating due to high coolant temperature  that may damage the engine. if you  continue to drive the vehicle in this  case, it can result in severe engine  damage or even fire.



driver information,system image,description
odometer,,this indicates distance travelled by the vehicle. the odometer reading does not return to “0” when maximum value is reached; the display will freeze the maximum value.
trip meter a & b,,the trip meter can be used to measure the distance trav­ elled on short trips or between fuel stops. it can be reset to “0”. the trip meter reading becomes “0.0” after it crosses 9999.9 km.
clock,,"indicates current time in am/pm mode. clock time can be changed using steering wheel switches on the steering wheel. whenever the battery terminals or related fuses are con­ nected, you must reset the clock time. this feature is available when ignition switch is in ‘on’ position. note: clock settings can also be changed through info­ tainment system. for more information, refer infotainment manual."
service reminder,,"this indicates how many days/kilometres are left till serv­ ice is due. if service is overdue, it will display “0” km or “0” days and a spanner symbol will blink every time ignition is on for a few seconds. never reset the display between"



driver information,system image,col2,col3,description
,,,,service intervals as it may give incorrect readings. the in­ formation is retained in the service interval display even after the vehicle battery is disconnected. note: this option is for indicative purpose only. keep track of your odometer reading and follow the mainte­ nance schedule.
door ajar,,,,respective door open display pop up come for few sec and then telltale with respective door open shall be dis­ played.
current gear position (indicator),,,,"current gear engaged by the transmission shall be dis­ played on dis. note: if “f” is displayed it means a defect in the system is detected contact the nearest tata motors author­ ized service centre immediately to rectify the problem. in case of a manual transmission, the gear number will be displayed when the clutch is fully released."
gear recommenda­ tion,,,,up or down arrow will be displayed on dis to shift a gear up or down. no arrow shall be displayed when the selected gear is as per the vehicle dynamics.



col0,col1,dashboard and features
driver information,system image,description
night time illumina­ tion control,,dashboard illumination in night time can be controlled in 5 steps as per user’s convenience using set and mode button. refer settings flow.
drive mode (amt),,applicable to amt variant of the vehicle. “m” indicates manual drive mode. “a” indicated automatic drive mode.

instantaneous fuel economy (ife)    to reach the instant fuel economy in theinstrument cluster. press the    but­ ton on the rhs of the steering wheel.  ife display does not show fuel economy  of last drive.  the display does not show actual value  unless vehicle is moving.  the indication on the display screen may  be delayed if fuel consumption is affected  by driving pattern.noteife will vary frequently as per driving  pattern.power and torque    indicates the value of power and torque  delivered by engine in the particular driv­ ing condition.  average fuel economy (afe)                            trip atrip b  afe value is an estimate of fuel economy.  it may vary significantly based upon driv­ ing conditions, driving habits and condition  of the vehicle.  to see the average fuel economy in the in­strument cluster, press the    switch  on the rhs of the steering wheel.  trip time, average speed and trip distance  will reset to ‘0’ when respective trip meter  is reset.

noteaverage fuel economy, trip time and  average speed will get reset to ‘0’ when  battery is removed and refitted.  average fuel economy will be dis­ played as ‘—.—‘for initial 0.5 km of re­ spective trip. once 0.5 km distance is  covered, average fuel economy will be  displayed.  even after 0.5 km distance covered for  particular trip, if average fuel economy  is displayed as ‘—.—‘, then take your  vehicle to tata motors authorized  dealer/service center.distance to empty (dte)    the above dte screen indicates an ap­ proximate distance in ‘km’ that your vehi­ cle can travel with available fuel in tank.  to reach the distance to empty in the in­tons on rhs of the steering wheel.  dte values may vary significantly based  on driving conditions, driving habits, and  condition of the vehicle. it is an estimate  value of the available driving distance.  if low fuel warning light glows, fill the fuel  tank immediately regardless of the dte  figure.noteif dte is displayed as ‘—-‘, then  take your vehicle to the tata mo­ tors authorized dealer/service  center.if dte is displayed as ‘—-‘, thenthe dte will update with a new  value when fuel is added for more  than 7 litres at a time.the dte will update with a newinfotainment information on instru­ ment cluster display unitthe instrument cluster will display informa­ tion like media, navigation and fm.setting screen    user can enter into setting by pressing se­lect button   while being in setting  screen.

to change the option by pressing  button on rhs of the steering wheel.to change the option by pressingnotein the setting menu if there is no user  input for 10 sec the previous screen  shall be displayed.illumination screen  user can select illumination setting by  scroll down & pressing set button on the  rhs of the steering wheel.to increase the illumination from 20% to100% in five steps by pressing   button  on rhs of the steering wheel.  to decrease the illumination from 100% to20% in five steps by pressing   button on  rhs of the steering wheel.  illumination settingif parking lamp is off, the option is greyed  out and can not be selectableilluminated key ring  when the vehicle is unlocked, the illumi­ nated key ring glows up. this helps to lo­ cate ignition switch in the dark.  outside ambient temperature    this displays outside ambient temperature  reading with an accuracy of ±1 °c.  the temperature sensor is located at the  front bumper. therefore the temperature  reading can be affected by heat reflection  from the road surface, engine heat and the  exhaust from surrounding traffic.  if outside temperature falls below -1°c, a  “snowflake” symbol appears beside the

outside temperature reading.notefor an accurate temperature reading,  make sure the vehicle speed is above  30 kmph.warningif display shows oat temp as “- - “, take  your car to the tata authorized service  center.service reminder setting  service reminder reset option will be en­ abled only in service due/overdue condi­ tion only.    user can reset the service reminder sym­ bol by pressing up  / down   buttons &  and select   set buttons.notein the setting menu if there is no user  input for 10 sec the previous screen  shall be displayed.clockclock indicates current time in 12 / 24  hours mode.clock mode can be changed either  • through instrument cluster setting  screen (if clock option not grey out by  default) or through infotainment sys­ tem setting screen, refer infotainment  system manual for this.  clock settinguser can select clock setting by scroll  down & pressing set button in setting  screen.

up and down button to be   used  for scrolling through fields of 24 hour  format/hour/minute/am/pm.select button   to be used to enter  into required field and exit from that.up and down button to be used for  changing the values.

display messages on instrument cluster  below messages may be displayed in the screen for three seconds based on the priority and after display time is over some warnings  will be shown with minimized tell tale symbol.  interrupts messages    note: all messages may not be applicable to your vehicle.



sn,alert,interrupts messages on instrument cluster
1,rotate steering wheel (in escl jam condition),press start button while turning wheel
2,key fob battery low,smart key battery low replace battery
3,smart key out of range,smart key out of range
4,drive alert - tea break,take a break
5,"steering failure, please stop driving",steering failure stop the vehicle safely
6,"steering failure, please visit garage",steering failure contact service center
7,pedal press alert clutch,press clutch pedal to start engine
8,happy birthday,happy birthday
9,align steering wheel,align steering wheel



sn,alert,warning messages on instrument cluster
1,fuel level low state,fuel level low
2,fasten seat belt co-driver,fasten co-driver seat belt
3,fasten seat belt - driver,fasten driver seat belt
4,speed limit warning,over speeding detected slow down



sr.no,alert,information messages on instrument cluster
1,park brake engaged,park brake engaged
2,traction control off,tcs turned off
3,auto headlamp,auto headlamp activated
4,resume to target speed not possible in current gear,change gear to resume cruise speed
5,cruise override,cruise override
6,iss-start the engine,auto stop start the engine



col0,col1,dashboard and features
sr.no,alert,information messages on instrument cluster
7,auto start enabled low battery charge,autonomous start enabled - battery soc low
8,auto start enabled low brake assist vacuum,autonomous start enabled - brake vacuum low
9,auto start enabled high cabin temperature,autonomous start enabled – cabin temp high
10,auto start enabled low coolant temperature,autonomous start enabled – coolant temp low
11,auto start enabled start vehicle rolling,auto start enabled vehicle rolling
12,auto start-stop enabled text alert,auto start- stop enabled
13,auto start-stop disabled text alert,auto start- stop disabled

instrument cluster (lcd screen)    note: all indicators shown may not be applicable to your vehicle

speedometer    speedometer indicates the vehicle speed  in kmph.notewhenever you turn the ignition on, the  instrument cluster needles and gauges  move to maximum value and return to  ‘0’ position. this is a welcome strategy  and a self-check feature.tachometer  tachometer indicates engine speed in rev­ olutions per min (rpm).warningdo not drive the vehicle with high en­ gine rpm. this may cause damage to  the engine and reduce its life.fuel gauge  when the ignition switch is in “on” posi­ tion, fuel gauge gives an approximate in­dication of the amount of fuel in the fuel  tank. “f” stands for full and “e” stands for  empty.    when fuel in the tank nears empty, low  fuel warning tell-tale light glows. fill fuel as  soon as possible.notedo a check of the fuel level when  the vehicle is stationary on a plain  surface.do a check of the fuel level whenthe fuel level displayed can vary  when you drive on inclines, curves,  brake and accelerate suddenly. this  is due to the movement of fuel in the  tank. the low fuel warning lamp  may turn to on or off earlier or  later than usual.the fuel level displayed can vary

warningif there is any fault in the system, low  fuel warning symbol will start blinking.  take your vehicle to the nearest tata  motors authorized dealer/service  center.temperature gauge  when the ignition switch is in the “on” po­ sition, this gauge indicates the engine  coolant temperature.the indicator should stay within the nor­ mal, acceptable temperature range be­ tween “h” and “c”. if the indicator  approaches “h”, overheating is indicated  by a red bar.  if the coolant temperature reading is very  high, the engine coolant temperature tell- tale light flashes with an audible buzzer. in  this case, stop the vehicle, switch ‘off’  the engine and cool it down for some time.  contact the nearest tata motors au­thorized dealer/service center immedi­ ately for rectification.warningthe red progress bar indicates over­ heating, due to high coolant tempera­ ture which may damage the engine.  continuing to drive the vehicle in this  case can result in severe engine dam­ age or even fire.



driver information,system image,col2,col3,description
odometer,,,,"indicates distance travelled by a vehicle. the odometer reading does not re­ turn to “0” when maximum value is reached, the display will freeze to maximum value."
trip meter a & b,,,,the trip meter can be used to measure the distance travelled on short trips or between fuel stops. it can be reset to “0”. the trip meter reading becomes “0.0” after it crosses 9999.9 km.
clock,,,,"indicates current time in am/pm mode. clock time can be changed using ‘set’ & ‘mode’ knob. whenever the battery terminals or related fuses are connected, you must reset the clock time. this feature is available when ignition switch is in on position. note: clock settings can also be changed through infotainment system. for more information, refer infotainment manual."
door ajar,,,,this warning will be indicated when the driver’s door or front passenger door is open.
service reminder,,,,"this indicates how many days/kilometres are left till service is due. if service is overdue, it will display “0” km or “0” days and a spanner symbol will blink every time ignition is on for a few seconds. never reset the display between service intervals as it may give incorrect readings. the information is retained in the service interval display even after the vehicle battery is disconnected. note: this option is for indicative purpose only. keep track of your odometer reading and follow the maintenance schedule."



driver information,system image,col2,col3,description
current gear position indicator,,,,"current gear engaged by the transmission shall be displayed on driver infor­ mation system. note: if “f” is displayed it means a ‘fault’ condition. contact the nearest tata mo­ tors authorized service centre immediately in case of manual transmission, the gear number shall be displayed even when the clutch is fully released."
gear recommendation,,,,up or down arrow will be displayed indicating for a gear change. no arrow shall be displayed when the selected gear is as per the vehicle dy­ namics.

instantaneous fuel economy (ife)    monitor the ife bar graph to achieve bet­ ter fuel economy.  ife display does not show fuel economy  of last drive.  the above image indicates real time fuel  economy when the ignition is turned ‘on’.  the display does not show actual value  unless vehicle is moving.  the indication on the display may be de­ layed if fuel consumption is affected by  driving pattern.noteife will vary frequently as per driv­ ing pattern.ife will vary frequently as per driv­ife display does not show fuel  economy of last drive.ife display does not show fuelaverage fuel economy (afe)trip time, average speed and trip distance  will reset to ‘0’ when respective trip meter  is reset.  average fuel economy will be displayed  as ‘—.—‘for initial 0.5 km of respective trip.  once 0.5 km distance is covered, average  fuel economy will be displayed.  even after 0.5 km distance covered for  particular trip, if average fuel economy is  displayed as ‘—.—‘, then take your vehicle  to the nearest tata motors authorized  service centre.noteafe value is an estimate of fuel  economy. it may vary significantly  based upon driving conditions, driv­ ing habits and condition of vehicle.afe value is an estimate of fuelaverage fuel consumption will get  reset to ‘0’ when battery is removed  and refitted.average fuel consumption will get

distance to empty (dte)    the above image indicates an approxi­ mate distance in ‘km’ that your vehicle can  travel with available fuel in tank.  dte values may vary significantly based  on driving conditions, driving habits, and  condition of the vehicle. it is an estimate  value of the available driving distance.  the dte figure will update with a new  value when fuel is added for more than  seven litres at a time.  if low fuel warning light glows, fill fuel im­ mediately regardless of the dte figure dis­ played.noteif dte is displayed as ‘—-‘, then take  your vehicle to the tata motors au­ thorized dealer/service center.

outside ambient temperature    this displays outside ambient temperature  reading with an accuracy of ±1 °c. since  the temperature sensor is located at the  front bumper of the vehicle, the tempera­ ture reading can be affected by heat reflec­ tion from the road surface, engine heat  and the exhaust from surrounding traffic.driver information system (dis) setting

driver information system (dis) setting  instrument cluster’s brightness intensity  and backlight intensity will turn on after the  parking lamp is on.warningthe clock and illumination settings  should be changed only when the vehi­ cle is in stationary condition for safety  purposes.illumination setting procedurefor illumination setting short press  set button with position lamp on.change illumination levels by short  pressing set button.

clock settingnoteif parking lamp is on and by short pressing set button you can enter into illumination setting.if parking lamp is on and by shortif user want go to clock screen then user has to short press set button.if user want go to clock screen thenif user is in illumination setting then short press mode will go to clock setting.if user is in illumination setting thenif user want clock in 24/12 hour for­ mat, in any screen on long press mode button, clock changes to 12/24 hour format respectively.if user want clock in 24/12 hour for­

display messages on instrument cluster  below messages can be displayed on the screen for four seconds based on the priority.    1.gear number up/down auto/manual     6.text info and warning  2.mode display 7.color tell tale  3.driver information display 8.fuel gauge  4.temperature gauge 9.instantaneous fuel economy    5.clock 10.odometer / trip a and b     note: all messages may not be applicable to your vehicle



col0,col1,dashboard and features
sn,information,string on lcd screen
1,speed limit warning,overspeed
2,service reminder days,service due
3,service reminder km,service due
4,fuel level low state,low fuel
5,key fob battery low,key batt low
6,smart key out of range,key out of range
7,rotate steering wheel (in escl jam condition),rotate steering
8,resume to target speed not possible in current gear,unable to resume
9,cruise override,cruise override
10,cruise is resuming to set speed,cruise resumed
11,cruise off,cruise off
12,press clutch,press clutch
13,please crank,plz crank
14,autonomous start enabled - battery soc low,autostart
15,autonomous start enabled - brake vacuum low,autostart
16,autonomous start enabled – cabin temp high,autostart
17,autonomous start enabled – coolant temp low,autostart
18,drive alert1 - tea break,take a break
19,cruise cancelled,cruise cancelled
20,owner’s birthday,happy birthday



tell tales,col1,col2,col3
warning lamps,color,indicator,remarks
malfunction indication lamp (mil),amber,,"1. the lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘on’. once engine is started, it turns ‘off’. 2. it remains ‘on’ for any engine related fault that may increase emission levels of the vehicle beyond the regulatory norms. contact the tata mo­ tors authorized dealer/service center for rectification."
check engine lamp,amber,,"1. the lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘on’. once engine is started, it turns ‘off’. 2. illuminates continuously if a fault arises in engine management system. contact the tata motors authorized dealer/service center."
immobilizer (if avail­ able),red,,1. the lamp comes on when the system disables the engine start if the orig­ inal key is not used. 2. lamp blinks: vehicle is in immobilized condition when key is not inserted. 3. lamp on: problem with key/system. contact tata motors authorized dealer/service center. 4. lamp off: normal condition (authenticated user) and engine will start.
turn signal,green,,"indicates direction indicated by the turn signal. while you operate the left/right turn indicator, the turn signal blinks along with the buzzer (when ignition is ‘on’). the direction indicator arrow on the in­ strument cluster flashes along with the selected external indicator lights. both tell-tale lights will blink simultaneously when the hazard switch is pressed ir­ respective of whether the ignition on or off. a tick-tock sound will be heard in both cases."



col0,col1,col2,col3,col4,dashboard and features
warning lamps,color,indicator,,,remarks
high beam,blue,,,,the lamp comes on when the high beam headlamps are switched ‘on’ or flashed.
low oil pressure indi­ cator,red,,,,"1. the lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘on’ and goes ‘off’ once required engine oil pressure is developed after starting the engine. 2. if the low oil pressure indicator does not glow or remains ‘on’ when the engine is running, it indicates a fault in the electrical circuit/lubrication system. contact the nearest tata motors authorized service centre to rectify the issue."
battery charging,red,,,,"the lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘on’. once engine is started, it turns ‘off’. if it remains ‘on’ while the engine is running, it indicates that the battery is not getting charged or having the lower charge. in such cases attempt to charge the battery 3000 engine rpm for 15 min and see if battery telltale goes off after one ignition on-off. even after 15 minutes, charging the battery telltale keeps ‘on’ then switch off all unnecessary electrical equipment and contact the nearest tata motors authorized service centre."
airbag status,red,,,,the lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘on’ and goes ‘off’. if it con­ tinuously blinks then contact the tata motors authorized dealer/service center immediately.
park brake / brake fluid low / ebd mal­ function,red,,,,"the lamp comes on momentarily when ignition is switched ‘on’. once park­ ing brake is released, it turns ‘off’. if it remains ‘on’, then it indicates: 1. brake fluid level is low. 2. ebd malfunctioning."



warning lamps,color,indicator,remarks
cruise control lamp (if available),green,,"the lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘on’. once engine is started, it turns ‘off’. the cruise control is used to indicate the status of cruise control system to the driver. if the lamp is on, it indicates that the cruise control feature is acti­ vated."
high coolant temper­ ature,red,,"the lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘on’. once engine is started, it turns ‘off’. if the engine overheats due to higher coolant temperatures, this indicator blinks along with an audible buzzer. contact your nearest tata motors authorized service centre immediately. when the engine coolant tempera­ ture reaches the maximum limit, the tell-tale lights blink with a red colour and you will hear an audio warning. note: do not remove the radiator pressure cap from the radiator when the engine is hot. do not restart the engine until the problem has been duly at­ tended."
abs,amber,,the abs warning lamp in the instrument cluster lights up when the ignition is switched on. it goes off after 2-3 seconds if system is healthy. the lamp remains on if there is any malfunction in abs. normal braking sys­ tem will be operational without assistance of abs. contact the tata mo­ tors authorized dealer/service center immediately.
sport (if available),amber,,this symbol comes on when sport driving mode is activated when more torque is required.



col0,col1,col2,col3,col4,dashboard and features
warning lamps,color,indicator,,,remarks
low fuel indicator,amber,,,,"the lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘on’. once engine is started, it turns ‘off’. the symbol lights up continuously if fuel level in the tank is low. fuel needs to be filled immediately. note: the tell-tale warning light will start flashing if there is any fault in the fuel system. contact the nearest tata motors authorized dealer/service center immediately."
driver seat belt indi­ cator,red,,,,"the driver seatbelt warning indicator remains on, when ignition is turned on. the warning lamp remains on as long as the driver seatbelt is not fastened. if seatbelt remains unbuckled and vehicle goes above 15 kmph, then final audio warning will go on for 90 seconds. note: once the seatbelt is fastened the buzzer and warning lamp turns off. seatbelt reminder gets off when reverse gear is engaged."
key not detected (if available),amber,,,,this lamp comes on when the valid smart key is not detected inside the ve­ hicle.
press clutch pedal to start engine (if avail­ able),amber,,,,this lamp comes on with ign on till user presses the clutch pedal to start the engine.
water in fuel indicator (diesel),amber,,,,the lamp remains on if excess water is accumulated in the fuel filter. when this lamp blinks along with chime contact the nearest tata motors au­ thorized dealer/service center to drain the water immediately to avoid seri



warning lamps,color,indicator,remarks
,,,ous damage to the fuel injection system.
daytime running lamps drl (if avail­ able),green,,"the lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘on’. once engine is started, it turns ‘off’. this lamp comes on when the daytime running lamp is ‘on’. note: parking lamp should be on start the drl lamp."
door ajar lamp (if available),white / red,,all four door and tail gate are indicated independently when the respective door or tail gate is open.
front passenger seat belt indicator,red,,"the co-driver seatbelt warning indicator turns on when ignition is turned on. if front passenger seat is occupied by adult, the warning lamp remains on as long as the co-driver seatbelt is not fastened. if seatbelt remains unbuckled and vehicle goes above 15 kmph, then final audio warning will go on for 90 seconds. note: once the seatbelt is fastened the buzzer and warning lamp turns off. seatbelt reminder gets off when reverse gear is engaged."
speed limit warning indicator,amber,,"when the vehicle speed crosses 80 kmph, then speed limit warning indicator turns ‘on’ along with an audio chime for every two minutes (audible warn­ ing)."



col0,col1,col2,col3,col4,dashboard and features
warning lamps,color,indicator,,,remarks
,,,,,"if vehicle speed crosses 120 kmph, the speed limit warning indicator flashes along with an audio warning continuously, until the vehicle speed is above 120 kmph. if vehicle speed is between 80 kmph and 120 kmph, then the audio warning will become less frequent but the speed limit warning indicator will remain ‘on’ continuously. when the vehicle speed is reduced below 80 kmph, then the speed limit warning indicator and the audio warning will turn off."
eco (if available),green,,,,"the lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘on’. once engine is started, it turns ‘off’. when eco lamp is on, it indicates the car is in ‘economy’ drive mode, which helps to achieve a better fuel economy."
city,white / blue,,,,"the lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘on’. once engine is started, it turns ‘off’. if city lamp is on, it indicates ‘city’ drive mode, which helps to achieve op­ timum torque and fuel economy."
dpf (if available),amber,,,,"the dpf warning light or symbol switches ‘on’ continuously to indicate that the dpf needs to eliminate the trapped pollutants (particulate matter) through the re-generation procedure. the warning light or symbol switch ‘on’ only when driving conditions require the driver to be notified. dpf ‘on’ does not indicate a malfunction. to switch off the warning light or symbol, keep the car running on road until regeneration is complete (ideally at 3rd gear, 50-80 kmph, with engine speed over 2000 rpm). the process normally takes about 20 minutes."



warning lamps,color,indicator,col3,col4,remarks
,,,,,"the warning light or symbol remains off during the entire dpf regeneration procedure if the procedure is not followed, mil lamp will switch on, along with dpf lamp on instrument cluster. note: please follow the above-recommended dpf regeneration procedure to avoid mil lamp switch ‘on’. in case, mil lamp switch on, please contact nearest tata authorized service centre to restore dpf operation."
epas,amber,,,,illuminates momentarily when ignition is switched ‘on’. illuminates when there is a fault in the epas. contact a tata motors authorised service centre immediately.
amt fault (if avail­ able),amber,,,,illuminates momentarily when ignition is switched ‘on’. illuminates continuously when there is a fault in automatic manual transmission system. contact a tata motors authorized service centre immediately.

audio reminders (as available)  key-in reminder/audio warning  if you forget the key inside the vehicle  when you leave the ignition in ‘off’ posi­ tion, an audio warning will sound. remove  key to stop the warning.  if no key is detected in the vehicle   if the vehicle is in acc on/ign on and  the customer takes the smart key out of  the vehicle and closes the last door, an  audio warning will be sounded for nine  times to alert that the key is not in the ve­ hicle.notein this condition customer needs to  bring the smart key inside the  vehicle.parking lamp ‘on’ reminder  if you forget to turn off the park lamp, an  audio warning will be started.  switched  off the park lamps to stop the warning.notedo not forget to turn off your park  lamp as it may drain the vehicle’s bat­ tery.parking brake ‘on’ reminder  if park brake is applied and vehicle is  driven, telltale will turn ‘on’ and buzzer  will provide audio warning continuously.  disengage the park brake to stop audio  warning.  reverse gear reminder  if reverse gear is engaged, the buzzer  sound will alert you.  driver seat belt reminder  if seatbelt is not fastened and vehicle goes  above 15 kmph, then final audio warning  will go on for 90 seconds. seat belt tell-tale  light will blicks when audio alarm is active.  front passenger seat belt re-minder  if front passenger has not fastened seat­ belt and if vehicle speed goes above 15  kmph, then final audio warning will go on  for 90 seconds. seat belt tell-tale light willblicks when audio alarm is active.notefasten the seatbelt to stop audio warn­ ing.door open reminder  if any door is open and the user tries to  lock the vehicle, one flash with a beep  sound will indicate that a door is open.  engine coolant temperature high  chime  the engine coolant temperature tell-tale  warning light along with an audio warning  will alert the driver if the coolant tempera­ ture is high.  speed limit chime  when speed of the vehicle is greater than  80 kmph, an audio warning will sound at  periodic interval of 120 seconds.  when vehicle speed crosses 120 kmph,  continuous audio warning (beeps) will  sound.  drive mode chime

to eco or eco to city, a single audio warn­ ing will sound.  electronic steering column lock  (escl) chime  this feature informs the driver to rotate  steering wheel when escl gets engaged  accidentally.  wif (water in fuel)/ffc(fuel filter  clog ) chime  if water is detected in fuel buzzer shall  sound to alert you.  amt fault reminder  if fault occur in amt, 3 second audio  warning will alert you.combi-switch (rh stalk) (if avail­ able)  1. left turn signal  move the lever fully upward.  2. right turn signal  move the lever fully downward.notewhen the turn is completed, the signal  will cancel and the lever will return to its  normal position.3. high beam  move the lever forward to select the high  beam function.  pull the lever back to normal for low beam.  4. high beam flash (spring return)  to flash the high beam, pull the lever to­ wards you from the normal position. it will  return to its normal position when you re­ lease it.  5. headlamp rotary switch  off position      all lamps will remain ‘off’.  parking lamp      rotate stalk to turn ‘on’  the parking lamps.  low beam      rotate stalk to turn ‘on’  the low beam function.  auto light      the headlights will be au­ tomatically switched on  depending on ambient light conditions

(while entering a tunnel or when it is twi­ light).  6. day time running lamps (drl)    day time running lamps  (drl) are used to increase  the visibility of the vehicle to  other drivers during daytime.to activate and deactivate drl, keep  1. the ignition switch is ‘on’ position and  switch the parking lamp on-off  twice.activation and deactivation of drl can  2. be done by drl soft switch, which is  available on the infotainment display.  7. lane change signal  to signal a lane change, move the lever  slightly up or down to the point where the  turn signal light begins to flash for six  times, but the lever does not latch. the  turn signal will flash six times automati­ cally.head lamp leveling rotary  switch    inner rotary switch on right hand stalk is  provided for head lamp leveling. with the  inner rotary switch, head lamp leveling  can be done with head lamp in low beam  and in ‘on’ position. select correct posi­ tion before start of trip, when the vehicle is  stationary. depending on the number of  passengers and luggage in the vehicle  headlamp focus may change. this can be  adjusted by rotating the knob to one of the  three level  positions.combi-switch (lh stalk) (if avail­ able)    0 ‘off’ position  the wiper is switched ‘off’.  1 intermittent wipe      push the stalk upwards to oper­ ate intermittent wipe.  inner rotary switch on left hand  stalk is provided for intermittent  front wiper delay. the switch has five delay  timers. push the stalk towards position (1)  for single wipe.

2 slow wipe  push the stalk towards position (2) for con­ tinuous slow wipe.  3 fast wipe  push the stalk towards position (3) for con­ tinuous fast wipe.  4 flick wipe (spring return)    pull the stalk downwards and  hold it for continuous wipe, the  wiper continuously wipes across the wind­ shield at low speed till the stalk is re­ leased.  5 front windshield washerpull the lever little longer, to  spray the washer fluid on  the windshield.the windshield wipers will operate for  three cycles after the lever is released  and for one more cycle after five sec­ onds.notewhen you crank the engine, the  supply  to washer motor is momentarily cut off.auto front wipe  if your vehicle is fitted with rain and light  sensor, the wipers will automatically wipe  the windscreen, if it senses rainfall. make  sure that the wiper stalk is in auto position.notewhen you crank the engine, the supply  to washer motor is momentarily cut off.6 rear wash and wiperear windshield / wiper and washer  (spring return)      turn the rotary knob clockwise  and release to operate rear  windshield wash and wipe. the wind- shield wipers will operate for three cycles.  rear wipe      turn the rotary knob counter  clockwise such that it aligns its  positions with arrow mark to operate rear  windshield wiper continuously.noterear wiper will not work as long as tail­ gate is open.rear windshield/ wiper and washer  switch      turn the rotary knob counter  clockwise such that it aligns its  positions with the arrow mark and hold it  to operate rear windshield wash and wipe  function. it will return to ‘rear wipe’ posi­ tion as soon as it is released and contin­ ues to wipe.

notewhen you reverse the car with front  wipers in ‘on’ condition, the rear wiper  will also be ‘on’ (if provided).warningif you operate wash and wipe function  for more than 15 seconds the controller  cuts off the supply to the washer motors  to avoid overheating.rain/light sensor (if available)  the integrated rain and light sensor is  mounted on front windshield glass to  sense rain and light.  as per the input from sensor, the wipe and  light functions will work automatically.dashboard controls  fascia switches are provided on driver  side dashboard.    front fog lamp switch  1. eco mode  2. idle stop start switch (iss)  3.front fog lamps (if available)    the front fog lamps are located on the  front bumper. in poor visibility conditions  due to fog, snow or rain, the fog lamps  make visibility better and make it easier for  other road users to see you. it turns to ‘on’  when the fog lamp switch is turned on  when the ignition is ‘on’ and when the po­ sition and parking/ head lamp is ‘on’. an  indicator on the instrument cluster will  come on when the front fog light is ‘on’.  fog lamp as cornering lamp  the front fog lamps also function as cor­

nering lamps to light up the area to the  side of the vehicle, making night-time  parking and turning safer.  eco mode(if available)  refer starting and driving section.  idle stop start switch (iss) (if avail­ able)  your car is equipped with push button on  right side of the dashboard to enable or  disable iss function.  for more details refer ‘starting & driving”  section.steering mounted controls  (lhs) (if available)    1. volume      press above switch to in­ crease or decrease volume  of music system / radio.  2. seek forward/backward      press above switch to change  radio channels.  3. receive calls/ptt (push to talk)      press above switch to acceptis connected via bluetooth.  voice recognition  to start, press the voice activation button  provided on the steering wheel. the sys­ tem mutes/ pauses the currently played  audio and you will hear a beep sound to  indicate the activation of the voice recog­ nition feature. the system displays the  voice recognition screen on infotainment  to indicate activation of the feature.notethe system will start recognizing  your voice command only after the  beep. so, speak your command  only after you hear the voice activa­ tion beep.the system will start recognizingfor more information related to  steering mounted controls, refer the  infotainment manual. ((refer link - http://service.tatamotors.com/con­ tent/owners-manual )if applicable)for more information related to

4. mute/phone reject    press above switch to reject or  hang up a phone call. it is also  used to mute the volume of  music system/radio.  5. source    press above switch to select the  required source in the infotain­ ment system i.e. usb, am, fm  and bluetooth.steering mounted controls  (rhs) (if available)    instrumentation controls(ic)  1. instrumentation controls scroll lh      press above switch to scroll lh on  instrument cluster display  2.  instrumentation controls scroll rh      press above switch to scroll rh on  instrument cluster display.2. ok / select & long press for set­ tings      press the above switch to select  the option and long press it (ap­ prox. three seconds) to go directly to the  instrument cluster settings.  3. cruise set (reset) using speed in­ crease (decrease) switchpress the cruise control mas­ ter switch on steering wheel.accelerate the vehicle to the de-sired  speed.make sure that the clutch and brake  pedals are not pressed.press the ‘set’ button on steering  wheel switch to set the desired cruise  speed. the cruise control indicator on  instrument cluster will turn ‘on’.remove your foot from the accelerator  • pedal.  once cruise control is activated the vehi­ cle automatically maintains the stored  speed.

noteminimum gear and speed requirements  for setting the cruise.4. changing the set cruise speed      the set cruise speed can be  adjusted using the buttons ‘+’  (to increase) or ‘-’ (to decrease) on steer­ ing wheel.  the speed increases and decreases on a  single press.  the changed speed will be shown on the  speedometer.  keeping the switch pressed increases or  decreases the speed continuously till the  switch is released or maximum/ minimum  speed limit for particular gear is reached.   the set speed can also be increased by  pressing the accelerator pedal till the de­ sired speed is achieved and then pressing  the ‘set’ button.   the set speed can also be decreased by  pressing the brake pedal (the cruise indi­ cator will turn off) and slowing down todesired speed and then pressing the ‘set’  button (the cruise control indicator will  turn ‘on’ again).  5. cruise control master switch      cruise speed can be resumed  only if cruise control is deacti­ vated by applying the brake. to  resume the previously set cruise speed,  accelerate the vehicle to a speed is as per  gear selected as below:  3rd gear approx. 30kmph to 80kmph  4th gear approx. 40kmph to 120kmph  5th gear approx. 50kmph to 140kmph  6. cruise control deactivating switch      there are two ways to deacti­ vate cruise control:  applying brake / clutch.press deactivation switch on steering  wheel.notewhen the vehicle will come out of cruise  automatically- when threshold requirement of required power and torque is  not met, vehicle might come out of  cruise control and manual intervention  might be required. it normally happen  when vehicle runs at gradient and sharp  turning with slope.notefor more information related to steering  mounted controls, refer the infotainment  manual.  ((refer  link  - http://service.tatamotors.com/content/o wners-manual )if applicable)for more information related to steering  mounted controls, refer the infotainment  manual.  ((refer  link  -

mic (if available)  mic is provided near the roof lamp.infotainment system display  (if available)  option ioption iinotefor more information, refer infotainment  manual. refer link -  https://cars.tatamotors.com/service/ow ners/owners-manual)  for compatible list of phones, refer link:  https://cars.tatamotors.com/service/ow ners/phone-bluetooth-compatibility- with-car-infotainment-system

master /force reset process  if your infotainment system touch screen  becomes unresponsive or shows some  unusual behavior, then you can restart it to  potentially resolve the issue. follow some  basic steps given below and you can  restart the system.  to restart the infotainment system  park the vehicle.  1.hold the steering wheel mute button  2. (long press) for more than 10 secs and  then release the button as soon as the  display goes blank.the step above will trigger the infotain­ 3. ment system restart procedure. wait  until the system restarts.when you hold the steering wheel  4. mute button for more than 15 sec, sys­ tem aborts restart process and display  turns on.noteit is preferable to do one ignition  off to on cycle after master/forceit is preferable to do one ignitionreset to synchronize vehicle settings  with the tata infotainment system.if the reboot does not work or mas­ ter/force resets are required on a  weekly or daily basis, vehicle shall  be taken to dealership. there, the  dealer can update your firmware or  inspect the system for hardware  problem.force/master reset keeps the stored  data, such as call history, text mes­ sage information, and previously  paired phones as it is.speakers & tweeter (if avail­ able)    tweeter  1. speaker  2. speakers and tweeters are available in  models with infotainment system. provi­ sions are given for music system and  speakers on versions without infotainment  system.

usb port (if available)    connect your pen drives to this socket for  playing music tracks through the vehicle’s  music system.power socket (if available)  the power socket will work when the igni­ tion switch is in the “acc” or “on”  posi­ tion. this socket can be used to provide  12v (10a) power for electrical acces­ sories.    for front passengerfor rear passengernoteuse of unapproved electrical acces­ sories can cause damage to your  vehicle’s electrical system.use of unapproved electrical acces­make sure that any electrical acces­ sories you use are de-signed to plug  into this type of socket and rating.make sure that any electrical acces­

antenna    antenna is located on the roof. turn the  antenna anticlockwise to remove it from  the vehicle, if required.noteplease keep vehicle antenna position in  maximum upward direction to get good  quality tuner reception.roof grab handle  option ioption ii    grab handles are installed on the roof for  all seats except for the driver’s seat. these  help the passengers to position them­ selves comfortably during the journey.

roof lamp  interior roof lighting lamp is provided on  the roof with inbuilt switch.  the switch has three positions:        on - the lamp will turn ‘on’ as  long as the switch is in this po­ sition.      door - in this position the  lamp turns to ‘on’ when either  of the doors are opened. when the last  door is closed, the lamp will turn ‘off’ with  dimming. this helps settling in the seatwhen the key is turned to the ‘ign’ posi­ tion, the lamp goes ‘off’ immediately.    off - in this position, the lamp  will remain ‘off’.boot lamp (if available)    boot lamp is provided in the rear luggage  compartment to illuminate the luggage  area.  it will switch on whenever any door or tail­ gate is open.

front lamp  position /turn indicator lamp  1. high beam lamp  2. front fog lamp (if available)  3. low beam lamp  4. drl (if available) 5.tail lamp    reverse lamp (on lh lamp only)  1. stop lamp  2. position lamp  3. turn indicator  4. high mounted stop lamp (chmsl)  5.

storage compartment&htab  glove box  1. driver side coin box  2. utility pockets on front doors  3.utility pockets on rear doors  4.centre console  5. stowage for rear passenger  6.tailgate compartment (luggage) 7.

glove box    opening and closing  to open - pull the lever to open the glove  box flap.  to close - lift glove box flap until it en­ gages.  glove box illumination (if available)  the glove box lamp illuminates when the  glove box flap is opened.notemake sure that glove box flap is closed  while driving.stowage detail (if available)following items can be stowage in glove  box.  ipad  1. visiting card  2. pen holder  3. mobile phone 4.cooling facility (if available)  on selected models glove box is provided  with a cooling facility. it cools the glove box  only when the front a/c is on. shut off  the vent by rotating the knob, whenever  cooling is not required.

driver side coin box  stowage is provided on rh side of steer­ ing wheel for coin, mobile and wallet.utility pockets on front doors  utility pockets are provided on front doors  and it can be used to keep following items.    magazine / paper / books  1. suitable water bottle  2.umbrella  3.noteremove the water from umbrella and  fold it properly before storing it in um­ brella holder.utility pockets on rear doors  utility pockets are available on rear doors  and it can be used to keep following items.    suitable water bottle  1. magazine / paper / books 2.

center console  following items can be stowage in center  console.    pen holder  • cup holder  • coin box •cup holder for front passenger  space for cup holder are provided in cen­ tre console.stowage for rear passenger (if avail­ able)  stowage for the rear passenger is avail­ able on rear side of floor console between  the front passenger seats. it can be used  to keep phone and small items.noteapplicable for models where rear vents  is not provided.

tailgate compartment (luggage)  store the luggage in tailgate compartment.  you can keep suitcase, bags, etc.    do not put any object on luggage cover  as it may obstruct driver’s rear visibility.warningdistribute the items of luggage as  evenly as possible.distribute the items of luggage asposition heavy loads towards rear  seat and low down in the trunk as  possible.position heavy loads towards reardo not allow occupants to travel in  the luggage compartment.do not allow occupants to travel indo not place anything on luggage  cover as it could obstruct driver’s  rear view. also in case of an acci­ dent or sudden braking, it coulddo not place anything on luggagecause an injury to occupants.noteluggage cover is designed only for hid­ ing the luggage compartment.

hooks (if available)  coat hook  coat hanger is provided for rear passen­ ger on right side grab handle.notethe coat hook is not designed to  carry heavy objects or lug-gage  items.the coat hook is not designed todo not hang hard, sharp-edged or  fragile objects on the coat hook.do not hang hard, sharp-edged orcollapsible hook    collapsible hook is provided for hanging  small carry bags etc.notedo not use these hooks for securing  luggage like using nets etc. in the boot.carrier hook    carrier hook is provided for hanging small  carry bags etc.

tag holder (if available)  tag holder is provided near the front wind­ shield for ease of displaying toll, parking  tickets, id’s, passes, labels etc.front seat back pockets (if  available)    rear pockets are provided behind the front  seats for keeping small magazines /note­ book etc.



air distribution  air distribution- the air is distributed through the vents in the passenger compartment as shown below:

air vents  air vents are available on the dashboard.  the direction of air flow can be adjusted  using sliders on the respective vents.    centre air vents (front)side air vent (front)electronic  temperature  control (etc) (if available)electronic  temperatureair distribution mode -center and side  1.air distribution mode- center, side and  2. foot well  air distribution mode -foot well   3. blower speed control  4. ac on/off switch  5.air distribution mode- defroster & foot  6. well   max. defrost button  7.

fresh / recirculation air mode  8. off switch  9. 1. air distribution mode -center and  side       this is to select the air distribu­ tion pattern directs air through the  center and side air vents.  2. air distribution mode center, side  and foot well      this is to select the air distribu­ tion pattern directs air through  the center and side and foot well air vents.  3. air distribution mode -foot well       this is to select the air distribu­ tion pattern directs air through  the foot well air vent.  4. blower speed control  press the blower speed control down but­ton    to decrease the blower speed  and press the blower speed control up but­ ton   for increase the blower speed.5. ac on/off    press the button to switch  on/off the ac. the indica­ tor lamp in the button will  light up when ac is on.notethe ac can be switched ‘on’ only if the  blower is ‘on’ and engine is running.when ac is switched ‘on’, engine idling  rpm increases marginally to adjust the ac  compressor load.  when desired temperature is achieved ac  compressor will self-displace optimum re­ frigerant flow.notecondensate may drip from the un­ derside of the vehicle when it is in  cooling mode. traces of water on  the ground are normal and are not  a sign of leakage or malfunction.condensate may drip from the un­ventilate the vehicle for a brief pe­ riod during warm weather. this willventilate the vehicle for a brief pe­speed up the cooling process and  the desired vehicle interior temper­ ature will be reached quickly.do not cover the air vents or air in­ take grilles in the vehicle interior.if the ac is not used for a long pe­ riod, such as during winter, it may  not give the best performance when  you start using it again. operate the  ac at least once a month to main­ tain optimum performance.while you start the vehicle after a  long duration (more than 15 days),  follow the procedure for better ac  performance:start the vehicle and allow the  engine to idle for 2-3 minutes.  ac should be off in this period.switch the ac on and run it for  another 2~3 minutes while the  engine idles. this circulates the  refrigerant and oil to lubricate  the internal parts of the air-con­ ditioning system.

6.  air distribution mode- defroster &  foot well       this is to select the air dis­ tribution pattern directs air  through the foot well air  vent and also through defrost.  7.  max. defrost button      this button directs the main  airflow towards windscreen  for faster defrosting. (it also overrides any  mode selection you may have made.)notefor your safety make sure you have  a clear view through all the windows  before driving.for your safety make sure you havewhen “air distribution mode - de­froster & foot well” or “air distribu­ tion mode - defroster” is pressed,  system may switch on ac and move  to  fresh  air  for  optimumdemisting/defrosting8. fresh / recirculation air mode    press the switch to activate /  deactivate air recirculation  mode. press to ‘on’ or ‘off’  9. off button    press the off button to switch  the system ‘off’.fully automatic  tempera­ ture control (fatc) (if avail­ able)fully automatic  tempera­fatc system controls the in-cabin temper­ ature of the vehicle automatically and pro­ vides maximum passenger convenience  regardless of outside weather conditions.    rear window demister button  1. maximum defrost button  2. air distribution mode - defroster  3. blower speed control down button  4. blower speed up control button  5.

temperature control knob  6. auto on selection button  7. ac button  8. fresh air / recirculation button  9. off button  10. display unit  fatc display is shown on main display  screen.    fatc functions can be controlled using  both the fatc control panel and the touch  screen display.  whenever the user presses any push but­ton or turns the rotary knob, then the dis­ play unit will show the relevant climate in­ formation.  also, when the display is not in climate  mode then climate information will be dis­ played on the all-time display available on  the top bar.  fatc controls  1. rear window demister button      this button turns the rear win­ dow demister on or off. the  system will be deactivated after 15 min of  continuous operation.noterear demister works only when engine  is running.2. max defrost button      this button directs the main  airflow towards windscreen  for faster defrosting. (it also overrides any  mode selection you may have made.)when you turn off the button, the system  returns to its former settings.notefor your safety make sure you have a  clear view through all the windows be­ fore driving.3. air distribution mode button      in auto mode, the fatc sys­ tem will regulate the mode au­ tomatically. however, user override is  possible with the use of mode button to  select the desired airflow mode.  each time you press the mode button,  the display shows the mode selected.directs air through the center  and side air ventsdirects air through the center,  side and foot well vents directs air through the foot well  air vents directs air through the defroster  & foot well vents (de-fault fresh  air mode)directs air through the defroster  vents (default fresh air mode)

col0,directs air through the center and side air vents
,"directs air through the center, side and foot well vents"
,directs air through the foot well air vents
,directs air through the defroster & foot well vents (de-fault fresh air mode)
,directs air through the defroster vents (default fresh air mode)
,

4. blower speed control down button      press the blower speed con­ trol down button to decrease  the blower speed.  5. blower speed control up  button      press the blower speed con­ trol up button to increase the  blower speed.  6. temperature control knob    turning the temperature control knob  clockwise increases the temperature of  the air. the desired temperature will be in­ creased by steps of 0.5ºc. user can select  temperature range from 18ºc to 30ºc.  turning the knob in the anticlockwise di­ rection reduces temperature.  when you set the temperature to its lower  limit (lo) or its upper limit (hi), the system  runs at full cooling or heating only. it does­ n’t regulate the interior temperature.7. auto on selection button    to put the automatic climate control in fully  automatic mode:  press the ‘auto’ button.set the desired temperature by turning  1. temperature control knob. the display  will show all the functions during  ‘auto’ mode.the system automatically selects the  2. proper mix of conditioned and / or  heated air that will, as quickly as pos­ sible, raise or lower the interior temper­ ature to your preference.when you set the temperature to its  3. lower limit (lo) or its upper limit (hi),  the system runs at full cooling or heat­ ing only. it does not regulate the inte­ rior temperature.   semi-automatic operation  you can manually select various functionsof the climate control system when it is in  fully automatic mode. all other features re­ main automatically controlled. making any  manual selection causes the word ‘auto’  in the display to go off and the overrid­ den setting is displayed. system will re­ main in semiautomatic mode till ‘auto’ is  pressed again.  8. ac on/off button      press the ac on/off but­ ton to turn the air condition­ ing on or off. the ac icon activated on  the display when the ac is on.  9. fresh air / recirculation buttonwhen the recirculation button or led  1. is switched ‘on’, air from the vehicle’s  interior is sent throughout the system.when the recirculation button is  2. switched to ‘off’, air from outside en­ ters into the cabin (fresh mode). when­ ever discomfort is felt, switch to fresh  air mode.

notethe outside air intakes for the climate  control systems are at the base of wind­ screen. keep this area clear from  leaves and other debris.use recirculation mode for faster heating  and cooling. however, keeping the system  in recirculation mode - particularly when  the ac is in off - can cause fogging of  windows.notein-car sensor on hvac control panel.  2. sensor located under t grill.  when reverse gear is selected, air inlet  may switch to recirculation mode if it is  in fresh air mode, to prevent exhaust  fumes from entering the cabin.  note10. “off” button    press the off button to switch  the system ‘off’. off will be  displayed on the infotainment  screen.  hvac sensorshvac system is fitted with three sensorsa solar sensor on windshield glass at  1. the top center.in-car sensor on hvac control panel.  2.outside ambient temperature (oat)  3.p ( ) sensor located under the front bumper  grill.do not cover or spill any liquid onsensors.do not cover sensor, this may cause  the sensor to malfunction. this may  lead to fatc not functioning to de­ sired level.do not cover sensor, this may cause



functions settings,control knob posi­ tion,col2,col3,col4,button position,col6,col7,col8,col9,col10,col11,col12
,(6),(7),(1),(2),(3),,,,(4),(5),(8),(9)
,temperature,auto,r e a r demister,m a x i m u m defrost,air distribu­ tion,,,,b l o w e r down,blower up,a/c,fresh air/ recir­ culation
normal heat­ ing,desired temp,auto,off,off,,,,,d e s i r e d speed,d e s i r e d speed,as de­ sired,off
quick heat­ ing,to the extreme right until temp ‘hi’,off,off,off,,,,,na,m a x speed,ac on,off
n o r m a l cooling,desired tem­ perature,auto,off,off,,,,,d e s i r e d speed,d e s i r e d speed,ac on,on
quick cool­ ing,to the extreme left until temp ‘lo’,off,off,off,,,,,na,m a x speed,ac on,on
demisting,"to the right up, to the desired temperature",off,as desired,on,,,,,d e s i r e d speed,d e s i r e d speed,ac on,off
defrosting,"to the right up, to the desired temperature",off,as desired,on,,,,,na,m a x speed,ac on,off

fully automatic temperature  control  (fatc) adjusted by infotainment  system    ac set in auto modeblower speed    fatc settings on head unit



pre driving checks  make sure thatwindshield, windows, mirrors, lights,  and reflectors are clean and unob­ structed.tool kit, jack & handle, warning trian­ gle, owner’s manual, first aid kit and  vehicle documents are available and  stored at their locations.warningdo not put any mat on the floor carpet  near control pedals area.all doors, engine bonnet and tail gate  are securely closed and latched.all occupants should always wear seat  belts or suitable crs as applicable  while travelling.objects, luggage or loads are se-cured  correctly against slipping or tipping.  rear seat is securely latched.  there is sufficient fuel for the trip.daily checktyres for unusual wear, cracks or dam­ age and embedded foreign material  such as nails, stones, etc.  traces of fluid and oil below vehicle.notewater dripping below the car is normal.  this is due to the usage of air condition­ ing system.all lamps, wipers, wiper blades and  horn for proper operation.all switches, gauges and tell tales are  • working properly.  adjustseats, head restraints and steering  wheel position.adjust all the mirrors before you start  • the car.  weekly check  engine oil level  • coolant level  • brake fluid level  •windshield washer fluid level  battery electrolyte level  fuel levelnotetyre pressure should always be meas­ ured in cold conditions.  do a check of the tyre pressure and  condition after every 15 days, including  the spare tyre.

driving tips  fuel consumption, engine, transmission,  brake and tyre wear are mainly affected by  the below factors:  operating conditions of your vehicle  • your personal driving style  • operating conditionsavoid frequent starts and stops as  these actions increase the fuel con­ sumption of the vehicle.  always ensure correct tyre pressure.  do not carry any unnecessary weight.regularly service your vehicle and ad­ • here to the recommended service  maintenance schedule.  personal driving styledo not press the accelerator pedal  when starting the engine.do not warm up the engine when the  vehicle is stationary.always adapt your driving style to suit  the prevailing road, weather condi­ tions, and maintain a safe distance  from the vehicle in front. drive care­fully.avoid frequent, sudden acceleration  and braking.select appropriate gear according to  varying speeds and load conditions.notedo not rest your foot on the clutch pedal  while driving.switch ‘off’ the engine in stationary  traffic or at signals.keep an eye on the vehicle’s fuel con­ sumption.safety systems are merely aids de­ signed to assist driving. you are re­ sponsible for the distance between the  vehicles in front, for vehicle speed and  anticipating braking in good time.warningyou could lose control of your vehi­ cle if you try to adjust the driver’s  seat, head restraint, mirror, steering  wheel and fasten the seat belt whileyou could lose control of your vehi­driving. there is a risk of an acci­ dent.press the clutch fully while shifting  the gears. the reverse gear should  be engaged only when the vehicle  is stationary. trans-mission may get  damage by trying to shift into re­ verse gear while the vehicle is mov­ ing. wait for 5 seconds after  declutching to ensure smooth en­ gagement of the reverse gear or  shift into one of the forward gears  for a moment while clutch is pressed  fully. this will avoid grinding of re­ verse gear while shifting.



recommended speeds,fuel economy
gear,petrol
,speed(kmph)
1,20
2,35
3,55
4,75
5,95

use the car ac only when you require.  for cooling, keep the blower speeds  low, as at higher blower speeds, the  ac consumes more electric power  which is ultimately drawn from engine  by burning fuel.avoid unnecessary extra electrical  loading on the car.stop the engine wisely at traffic sig­ nals. switch ‘off’ the engine at the  traffic signal only if the stoppage time  is high (typically more than 30 sec).when you drive on highways, close all  the windows. this reduces the drag on  the vehicle and improves fuel effi­ ciency.do not over speed. follow the speed  • limits. with increasing speed, the en­ gine rpm increases to overcome exter­ nal air resistance and this reduces fuel  efficiency.  running-in period  the purpose of running in a car is to give  time for the mechanical parts to settle so  that they work efficiently. this involves

gear,petrol
,speed(kmph)
1,20
2,35
3,55
4,75
5,95

do not adjust the driver’s seat while  driving. adjusting the seat while driving  could cause the driver to lose control of  the vehicle.seat backrest angle adjustment  to change the seat back rest angle, lean  forward slightly and pull up the lever (1).  adjust seat backrest until it reaches de­ sired comfortable position. make sure that  lever returns to its original position and  seat is securely latched.noteadjust the seat backrest until your arms  are slightly angled when holding the  steering wheel.warningdo not travel in a moving vehicle with  the seat backrest in an excessively re­ clined position as this can be danger­ ous.seat height adjustment (if available)  to raise the seat, pull and continue pump­ ing the lever (2) in the upward direction  until the seat is at the desired height.  to lower the seat, pump the lever down­ ward until the seat is at desired height.  seat forward/rearward adjustment  lift lever (3) and slide the seat forward or  to the rear. release lever and make sure  that seat is securely latched.noteadjust the driver seat position in such a  way that the driver will be able to oper­ ate the control pedals comfortably.head restraint (if available)    adjust the head restraint so that it is as  close to the head as possible and the cen­ ter of the head restraint supports the back  of the head at eye level. this will reduce  the risk of injury to the head and neck in  the event of an accident or similar situa­ tion.

warningdo not drive the vehicle without the seat  head restraints. head restraints are in­ tended to help reduce injuries during an  accident.front passenger seat sensor  an occupant detection sensor is installed  in the front passenger seat to detect  whether the seat is occupied or not and if  occupied, it will activate the seat belt re­ minder warnings. the sensor does not  have any control on the deployment of  airbags.warningany modification in the seat material or  addition of seat cover may damage oraffect the performance of the sensor.rear seatsrear seat folding  rear seat folding (complete seat  100%)

to fold the seat:press the backrest release knobs pro­ vided on both sides at the same time.fold the backrest seat forward. move  the driver and front passenger seat for­ ward if necessary.warningif the rear bench seat and seat  backrest are not latched properly,  they could fold forwards during hard  braking or in the event of a collision.if the rear bench seat and seatthe vehicle occupant would thereby  be pushed into the seat belt by the  rear bench seat or by the seat back­ rest. the seat belt can no longer  offer the intended level of protection  and could even cause injuries.the vehicle occupant would therebyobjects or loads in the trunk cannot  be restrained by the seat backrest.  there is an increased risk of injury.objects or loads in the trunk cannotbefore every trip, make sure that the  seat backrests and the rear bench  seat/rear seat are engaged and se­ curely latched.before every trip, make sure that the

rear view mirrors  inside rear view mirror (irvm)  to adjust the mirror move the mirror up,  down or sideways manually to obtain the  best rear view.  when you drive at night, set the selector  tab to select anti-glare mode (if available)  to reduce glare from the headlights of ve­ hicles behind you.noteuse antiglare position only when neces­ sary, as it reduces rear view clarity.outer rear view mirrors (orvm)  you can adjust the outer rear view mirrors  manually (by hand) or remotely by knob.  adjust the outside rear view mirrors to de­ sired position.noteobjects visible in mirror are actually  closer than they appear. always make  sure of the actual distance from the  road users traveling behind by glancing  over your shoulder.motorized orvm adjustment (if avail­ able)    the switch to adjust the motorized mirrors  is located on the driver’s door. you can ad­ just the mirrors when the ignition switch is  in the “acc” or “on” position.  to adjust the mirrors:move the mirror selection switch to l  1. (for left side) and r (for right side) to  select the mirror you wish to ad-just.use the four positions of the knob to  2. adjust the rear view mirrors to required  position.

orvm folding (as applicable)  option 1: manual folding  orvms can be folded or unfolded manu­ ally. this is applicable only for vehicles  which are not equipped with motorized  folding provision.  option 2: auto folding by smart key    when you lock the vehicle, orvms will be  folded automatically.when you unlock the vehicle, orvms will  be unfolded automatically.  in case to repeated usage, mirror fold­ ing/un-folding will stop functioning and willbe reactivated after delay of 2 mins. dur­ ing that period avoid repeated pressing of  switch.  option 3: auto folding by knob    to fold / unfold the orvms, keep the se- lector switch in center position (i.e. neither  ‘l’ nor ‘r, position) and then toggle down.  this will operate when the ignition switch  is in the “acc” or “on” position.

sun visors (if available)    the sun visors can be pulled down to  block the glare coming through the wind­ shield.  to block the glare from side windows, pull  down the sun visor and release it from re­ tainer. swing the sun visor to the side.  vanity mirror (if available)  vanity mirror is provided on the back of   the front passenger side sun visor.electric  power  assisted  steering (epas)electric  power  assistedsteering system is tuned in such  a way  that steering effort will slightly get heavy at  high speed to have better control on vehi­ cle whereas it will get lighter at low speed  to reduce the driver effort in parking.  in epas system, the steering effort be­ comes heavier as the vehicle speed in­ creases and becomes lighter as the  vehicle speed decreases for better control  of the vehicle at different vehicle speeds.  if the engine is ‘off’ or if the epas sys­ tem becomes inoperative, the vehicle still  can be steered with more steering effort.  this epas system is available with the fol­ lowing assist features  speed sensitive assist control  1. active return control  2.notea click noise may be heard from the  epas relay after the ignition switch  is turned on or off position.a click noise may be heard from thethe steering wheel may not un-lock  normally in some cases when igni­ tion key turned ‘on’ or ‘iss’ button  pressed. if this happens, turn the  steering wheel to the right or left  slightly to unlock the steering wheel  while turning the ignition key or  pressing iss button.the steering wheel may not un-lockcontact the nearest tata author­ ized service center if in case of the  above scenarios.contact the nearest tata author­warningbelow are the symptoms of the system  malfunction. then, take your vehicle to  the nearest tata motors service  center and have the epas system  checked as soon as possible.  the epas warning lamp illuminate.  •below are the symptoms of the system  malfunction. then, take your vehicle to  the nearest tata motors service  center and have the epas system  checked as soon as possible.epas motor noise may be heard  when the vehicle is driven at low  speeds.epas motor noise may be heardif the epas system does not oper­ ate normally, the warning light will ilif the epas system does not oper­

luminate on the instrument cluster.  the steering wheel rotation may be- come difficult to control or operate.steering wheel adjustment    you can adjust the steering wheel position  to suit your convenience.  the tilt lever is located offset to the steer­ ing column.  to adjust the steering wheeladjust the seat to a comfortable posi­ 1. tion.push “tilt lever” completely down to  2. unlock the steering column.adjust the steering wheel to the de­ 3. sired position.pull tilt lever up completely to lock the  4. steering column.pull tilt lever up completely to lock the  4.make sure that steering wheel is fixed  5. at desired position by gently pushing  the wheel in up & down direction.make sure that steering wheel is fixed  5.noteafter adjustment, sometimes the  lock tilt lever may not lock the steer­ ing wheel.after adjustment, sometimes theit is not a malfunction;  this occurs  when there is mismatch in gear  teeth engagement of  tilt mecha­ nism. in this case adjust the steering  wheel again & then lock theit is not a malfunction;  this occurssteering wheel.notewhen adjusting the steering wheel,  make sure that:you can operate control pedalsp without any obstacles.you can see all the displays in the  instrument cluster clearly.you can see all the displays in the

warningbefore you start the car, make sure the  steering wheel position is locked. do  not unlock or adjust the steering wheel  while the vehicle is in motion.noteto prevent serious accidents, the  steering effort may increase sud­ denly in case if the operation of the  epas system detects malfunction  during self diagnosis.to prevent serious accidents, thewhen steered for a prolonged pe­ riod, the steering effort will increase  to prevent overheating and damage  to the steering system.when steered for a prolonged pe­steering lock and ignition  switch (if available)    the ignition switch has the following four  positions:lock - this is the normal parking posi­ tion. key from lock can be removed in this  position only.  “lock” position prevents normal use of  the steering wheel after the key is re­ moved.  to release the steering lock, put the key in  the slot and turn it clockwise to one click  (acc).acc - accessories such as the infotain­ ment system can be operated, but the en­ gine remains ‘off’. steering gets  unlocked.  on - this is the normal operating position.  all electrical systems are ‘on’.  start - turn the key further clockwise to  the start position, (spring loaded) to  start the engine. as soon as the engine  starts, release the ignition key, which re­ turns to on position. while cranking, all  accessories will be momentarily ‘off’.  illuminated key ring (if available)  when the vehicle is unlocked, the illumi­ nated key ring glows. this helps to locate  ignition switch in the dark.

starting and stopping (with­ out peps)  starting the engine  make sure that parking brake is engaged  and vehicle is in neutral gear.  press the clutch pedal fully and crank the  engine. do not press the accelerator pedal  when starting the engine.notethe starter protection system fit­ ted in this vehicle does not allow you to  crank the engine until you fully press the  clutch pedal.the starter protection system fit­release the key as soon as the engine  starts. repeat if engine does not start.notethe starter protection system  switches off the starter when it is  continuously cranked for more than  10 secs. in such a case, get the key  back to ‘off’ position & wait for 30the starter protection systemsecs.for vehicle equipped with tur­ bocharger, after you start the en­ gine, run the engine at idle speed  for 30 seconds. do not press accel­ erator pedal while starting the en­ gine to avoid damage to the  turbocharger.starting off  to start off, press the clutch pedal fully and  shift into 1st gear.  after releasing the parking brake, gradu­ ally release the clutch and slowly press the  accelerator.notewhen shifting or starting off, do not race  the engine. racing the engine can  shorten engine life and affect smooth  shifting.stopping the vehiclefor vehicle equipped with turbocharger,  turn the key to ‘acc’ position to switch offthe engine. before switching off the en­ gine, run the engine at idle speed for 30  seconds and then switch off. this will allow  the engine oil to lubricate the turbocharger,  till its speed is fully reduced and also allow  the unit to cool down.warningdo not switch off the ignition while  driving.do not switch off the ignition whilefor vehicle equipped with tur­ bocharger, do not switch the engine  off when it is running at high speed.  this will lead to premature tur­ bocharger bearing wear.for vehicle equipped with tur­if you switch off the ignition while  driving, safety-relevant functions are  only available with limitations, or not  at all. this could affect the power  steering and the brake boosting ef­ fect. you will require considerably  more effort to steer and brake.  there is a risk of an accident.if you switch off the ignition while

starting and stopping (peps)  (if available)  engine passive start/stop    start/stop switch is provided on the dash­ board towards the right side of steering  wheel.  start/stop button  the start/stop button or push to start but­ ton is a main component of passive (en­ gine) start and stop system. it is used to  control acc, ign outputs as well as to  start and stop the engine.noteif smart key is inside the vehicle and  on pressing start stop switch, if start  stop switch green led blinks more  than 10 sec. duration then contact  authorized tata motors dealer.if smart key is inside the vehicle andif escl (electronic column steer­ ing lock) is not unlocked properly,  then vehicle doesn’t go into acc  modeif escl (electronic column steer­backup start  to start the engine when smart key battery  voltage is low, the user needs to press  start/stop button two times with an interval  of 2.5 seconds after pressing the clutch  with valid smart key near immobilizer an­ tenna (on key symbol in centre console).emergency start  if the engine is switched from on to off  and start/stop button is pressed with clutch  pressed within 5 seconds, engine gets  cranked.noteif escl (electronic column steering  lock) is not unlocked properly, then en­ gine will not get cranked.

engine passive start - condi­ tions  single press startbring the smart key with you and sit in  1. the driver seat.press the clutch pedal and then press  2. the start/stop switch.green colour led on start/stop button  3. will turn on.once engine is started successfully,  4. the green colour led on start/stop but­ ton stays on.  two step start  step 1have the smart key with you and sit on  1. the driver’s seat.press the start/stop button without  2. pressing clutch pedal.amber colour led on start/stop switch  3. turns on.engine will remain off and all electri­ 4.g cal equipment and infotainment sys­ tem can be used. steering isckedstep 2press the clutch pedal and then press  1. start/stop button to start the engine.green colour led on start/stop button  2. will turn on.once engine start successfully, green  3. colour led on start/stop switch will re­ main on.  three step start  step 1have the smart key with you and sit on  1. the driver’s seat.press the start/stop button without  2. pressing clutch pedal.amber colour led on start/stop button  3. will turn on.limited information will be dis-played  4. on instrument cluster and steering will  be unlocked. engine remains off.  step 2press the start/stop button without  1. pressing clutch pedal again.green colour led on start/stop button  2. will turn on.engine will remain off but all electri­ 3. cal equipment and infotainment sys­ tem can be used.engine will remain off but all electri­ 3.step 3press the clutch pedal and then press  1. start/stop button to start the engine.green colour led on start/stop button  2. will turn on.once the engine is started success- 3. fully, the green colour led on  start/stop button stays on.

engine passive stop - condi­ tions  single press stop  ign is on and engine is running.  •press the start/stop button with or with­ • out clutch.  acc and ign turns off.  • led on start/stop switch turns off.  • single long press stop  ign is on and engine is running.  •vehicle is in running condition i.e.  wheel rpm >10 rpm or wheel sensor  faulty.press the start/stop button for more  than three seconds.  ign returns off, acc remains on.amber colour led on start/stop switch  turns on.warningwhen vehicle is in off mode (acc,  ign and crank off) and user tries to  lock the vehicle from outside by pressing any door handle switch and if peps  detects that the smart key is left inside  the vehicle, an audio warning/ chime is  sounded.noteif clutch pedal is pressed for more than  3 minutes, then release the clutch/brake  pedal and again press clutch/brake  pedal with start stop button to crank the  engine.gear shifting    the gearshift pattern is as shown on the  gear lever knob. gear shifting should al­ ways be done with the clutch pedal fully  pressed.notegear recommendation is dis-played  when the clutch pedal is fully re­ leased.gear recommendation is dis-playedif “f” is displayed in dis of instru­ ment cluster, it means ‘fault’ condi­ tion. contact tata motorsif “f” is displayed in dis of instru­

authorized dealer/service center.press the clutch fully when gear  shifting. the reverse gear should be  engaged only when the vehicle is  stationary.use the clutch only to shift gears  and do not use it when vehicle is  stationary on a slope, as the car will  roll down due to gravity.if all doors are closed when the ve­ hicle is in acc/ign/run mode and  if peps does not detect the smart  key inside the car, then an audio  warning is given.do not rest your hand on the shift  lever during driving; pressure trans­ mitted from your hand may result in  premature wear of the transaxle in­ ternal gear shift mechanismreverse gear  to engage reverse gear, shift to reverse  position as shown on the gear lever knob.driving  climbing sharp gradients on loose  surfaces  start off smoothly in a suitable gear. accel­ erate smoothly so that there is no loss of  traction by over-revving of the engine.  choose a smooth slope and select the ap­ propriate gear so that gear changing in the  middle of the climb is not required.  changing gears in the middle of the climb  can cause loss of momentum and engine  stalling. shifting to lower gear has to be  done cautiously to avoid loss of traction.  under no conditions should the vehicle be  moved diagonally across a hill. the dan­ ger is in loss of traction and side-ways slip­ page, possibly resulting in toppling over. if  unavoidable, choose a mild angle and  keep the vehicle moving.  if the tyres start to slip within few feet at  the end of the climb, keep the vehicle sta­ ble by steering left and right. it gives in­ creased grip to the tyres.  if the vehicle stalls or losses headway  while climbing a steep hill, make a quick

shift to reverse and allow the vehicle to  move back with the help of engine brak­ ing.  descending sharp gradients  depending on the severity of the gradient,  shift into appropriate gear. use engine  braking judiciously without over-revving  the engine.  brake gently in such situations.warningwhen descending on sharp gradients,  do not turn the ignition key to the ‘off’  position. the braking assist and steer­ ing assist may malfunction and the  emission control system may be dam­ aged.automated manual transmis­ sion (amt) (if fitted)    transmission (amt) gearbox offers a  choice of three driving modes:automated mode with the gear lever in  1. position ‘a’.manual mode with the gear lever in po­ 2. sition ‘m’.  startingengage the parking brake firmly. press  1. brake pedal.put the ignition ‘on’  2.while the brake pedal is pressed, bring  3. the shifter lever to neutral - ‘n’. check  ‘n on instrument cluster.  crank to start the engine with the brake  pedal still pressed.noteif push button is pressed with brake  pedal is pressed and gear is in a mode,  the vehicle will not start. it will start  within 10 seconds if gear shifter is  moved from a to n with the brake pedal

continuously pressed.”stopping  the vehicle can be stopped by depressing  the brake pedal regardless of the gear po­ sition. this is because the clutch is auto­ matically disengaged to prevent the  engine from stalling.  if the gearshift lever is in the ‘a’ position,  the gear will be down shifted to ‘1st’ when  the vehicle stops. also, if the gearshift  lever is in the ‘m’ position, the gear will be  down shifted to ‘1st’ when the vehicle  stops.note‘auto’ mode will give optimum engine  torque and power output. drive the ve­ hicle in ‘auto’ mode to get max fuel  economy.  exhaust fan in the engine compartment  will remain ‘on’ for a short while after  ign is switched ‘off’.gear shifter driving modes  neutral    vehicle is in neutral gear position. this will  be indicated      on instrument  cluster.warningalways make sure to keep the gear  shift lever in the “n” position, when  the engine is running and vehicle is  stationary.always make sure to keep the geardo not shift the lever in “n” position,  even momentarily, when the vehicledo not shift the lever in “n” position,is in motion.reverse    reverse gear will be engaged only when  vehicle is stationary and brake pedal  pressed. an audio signal indicates whenreverse gear is engaged.     will be indi­ cated on instrument cluster.

auto mode    auto mode will be engaged only when ve­ hicle is stationary and brake pedal  pressed. an audio signal indicates whenautomatic gear is engaged.    will be in­ dicated in instrument cluster.  gear upshift and downshift will be done  automatically while driving.manual mode    shift gear lever to left for engaging manual  mode. an audio signal indicates whenmanual mode is engaged.   will be in­ dicated in instrument cluster.  in manual mode, driver should select the  desired gear by shifting lever to,  + upshift the gears.-   downshift the gears.push the gearshift lever to the ‘+’ direction  and release it. every time the lever is op­ erated, upshifting takes place 1 step in the  order of 1st > 2nd > 3rd > 4th > 5th  gear.  pull the gearshift lever to the ‘–’ direction  and release it. every time the lever is op­ erated, downshifting takes place in the  order 5th > 4th > 3rd > 2nd > 1st gear.notedown shifting of gear occurs automati­ cally while braking/engine rpm reduc­ tion.in manual mode, gears are not shifted au­ tomatically unless the engine rpm thresh­ old is reached.  creeping feature  creeping function allows the car move­ ment without accelerator pedal pressed  when the brake pedal is released.

this functionality is generally used in park­ ing maneuvers, with 1st or ‘r’ gear en­ gaged, in this situations the driver enters  and exits from creeping just by pressing  the acc. pedal.notecreeping function will not operate when  vehicle is in standstill condition on in­ clined surface.creep feature is enabled for manual as  well as auto mode for first and reverse  gear.after vehicle cranking and brake pedal  released vehicle starts moving without  pressing accelerator pedal.whenever  accelerator  pedal  is  pressed creep function will be dis­ abled.whenever driver door is opened and /  or parking brake is engaged, creep  function will be disabled.kick down feature  in automatic mode, while driving at a con­ stant speed if the accelerator pedal is  quickly pressed the amt downshifts the  gear (if required). it ensures optimum ac­ celeration to complete overtaking in mini­ mal time.drivingwith the engine running and brake  1. pedal pressed, depending on your re­ quirement shift the lever on r, d or m.  check the position engaged on the in­ strument cluster display.  release the parking brake.  2.release the brake pedal and press the  3. accelerator pedal gently.noteuse right foot only to operate brake or  accelerator pedal.  do not operate accelerator and brake  pedal simultaneously.  do not use your left leg to operate the  pedals while driving amt vehicle.noteif     displayed on the instrument clus­ ter display, it means ‘fault condition.  contact a tata motors authorized  service centre immediately.if     displayed on the instrument clus­

amt instruction sticker  follow the instructions provided on the  sticker before driving the vehicle.    parking  amt does not have a parking position.  the vehicle can be parked with the  gearshift lever in any position.  apply the parking brake firmly.  1.press the brake pedal and shift the  2. gearshift lever to the ‘r’ position on a  downhill slope, or to the auto ‘a’ mode  or the ‘m’ position in the manual ‘m’and confirm the gear position by  checking the gear position indicator on  instrument cluster. gear engagement  (r or a) can be done with ignition  on/engine running condition only.turn the key to ‘acc’ position to switch  3. off the engine. before switching off the  engine, run the engine in idle condition  for at least 30 seconds and then switch  off. this will allow the engine oil to lu­ bricate the turbocharger, till its speed  is fully reduced and also allow the unit  to cool down.warninga quick burst on the accelerator before  turning off the engine serves absolutely  no practical purpose, it wastes fuel and  is damaging especially to turbocharged  engine.warningdo not switch the engine off when it is  running at high speed. this will lead to  premature turbocharger bearing wear.notethe amt vehicle will shift itself into  neutral as a precautionary measure, if  the vehicle is stationary and one or both  of the front wheels spin on a low friction  surface (e.g. snow, mud, soft sand etc).  amt symbol will glow in the instrument  cluster indicating an intervention from  the transmission control unit.  following steps need to be carried out  sequentially in order to manoeuvre the  vehicle in such a situation.shift the gear shift lever to neutral  1.g position and switch the ignition off.press the brake pedal and crank the  2. engine again.press the brake pedal and crank the  2.with the engine running, shift the  3. gear position in auto mode.with the engine running, shift the  3.march the vehicle with low input  4. from the accelerator pedal as this  will ensure that the wheels do not  spin.march the vehicle with low input  4.

driving (amt)  climbing sharp gradients  apply the parking brake firmly so that the  vehicle does not roll backwards.  shift the gearshift lever to the “a” position  while depressing the brake pedal. make  sure that the gear position indicator in the  instrument cluster displays ‘1st’ gear.  release the brake pedal and depress the  accelerator pedal gradually, and when the  vehicle starts to move, release the parking  brake and depress the accelerator pedal  to start off.  on climbing sharp gradients, never hold  the vehicle at a stop using only the accel­ erator pedal or the creeping function. if  you perform this operation for a certain pe­ riod of time, this can also cause excessive  damage to the clutch.warningtry not to hold the brake pedal down  too long or too often while going down  a steep or long hill.this could cause the brakes to over­ heat, resulting in reduced braking effi­ ciency. failure to take this precaution  could result in loss of vehicle control.descending sharp gradients  depress the brake pedal and shift the gear  shift lever to the ‘a’ position. make sure  that the gear position indicator in the in­ strumental cluster displays ‘1st’ gear.  release the brake pedal and depress the  accelerator pedal slowly. even if the accel­ erator pedal is not depressed, the clutch  will be engaged when the vehicle speed  increases.warningwhen descending on sharp gradients,  never turn the ignition key to the  ‘off’ position. emission control system  damage may result.starting the engine  make sure that parking brake is engaged  and vehicle is in neutral gear.  press the clutch pedal fully and crank the  engine. do not press the accelerator pedal  when starting the engine.  release the key as soon as the engine  starts. repeat if engine does not start.warningthe engine emits poisonous exhaust  gases such as carbon monoxide. inhal­ ing these exhaust gases leads to poi­ soning. there is a risk of serious health  problems. therefore, never leave the  engine running in enclosed spaces  without sufficient ventilation.noteafter starting, run the engine in idle  speed for at least 30 seconds. do not  press accelerator pedal while starting  the engine to avoid damage to tur­ bocharger.

braking  your vehicle has vacuum assisted brakes.  the distance needed to bring the vehicle  to a halt increases with the speed of the  vehicle. start applying brake anticipating  the distance and slow down gradually.warningdo not use the brake pedal as a  footrest.do not use the brake pedal as aif you rest your foot on the brake  pedal while driving, the braking sys­ tem can overheat and cause fading  of brake pads. this in-creases the  stopping distance and can even  cause the braking system to fail.  there is a risk of an accident.if you rest your foot on the brakedo not press the brake pedal andp p the accelerator pedal at the same  time.  warningif you have driven for a long time in heavy  rain without braking, there may be a de­ layed reaction from the brakes when you  brake for the first time. this may also  occur after the vehicle has been washed.brake performance may become poor and  unpredictable if brakes are wet.  after you drive through water or if you  wash the underside of the vehicle, test the  brakes at slow speeds to see if the brakes  work fine. if the brakes are less effective  than normal, dry them by repeatedly ap­ plying the brakes at slow speeds until the  brakes have regained their normal effec­ tiveness.check traffic conditions before doing the  above activity.  braking on downhill gradients  when you drive on downhill slopes, re­ duce the load on the brakes by shifting to  a lower gear. this is called as engine brak­ ing and aids to reduce overheating and  wear of brakes.do not shift to lower gears on a slip­ pery road surface to in-crease the  engine’s braking effect. by doing so,  the tyres could lose their grip.do not shift to lower gears on a slip­there is an increased danger of  skidding and accidents.there is an increased danger of

drive modedrive mode selection   these modes can be used to adjust en­ gine characteristics and vehicle perform­ ance in line with desired requirement.  drive mode selection switch is provided on  center console for activation.  according engine type the car is equipped  with ‘city’ (default) and ‘eco’.  city is being default mode in each ignition  cycle.

drive mode,performance
city,increased engine torque and power output for bal­ anced perform­ ance
eco,optimum engine torque and power output for fuel efficient per­ formance

gear recommendation  up or down arrow will be displayed in dis,  recommending whenever gear should be  shifted to up or down        or .

idle stop start (iss) (if avail­ able)iss function   idle stop start system is a green environ­ ment initiative.  your vehicle is equipped with fuel saving  iss feature to shut off the engine to con­ serve fuel and emit less carbon dioxide.

working  starting the vehicle initially will be by con­ ventional method (key start or push button  start). when the vehicle is stationary and  engine is idle (in a traffic light, traffic jam,  toll gate, etc.) it will turn-off automatically.  when the clutch pedal is pressed, the en­ gine will restart automatically. engine may  also restart automatically without clutch  pedal press due to other preconditions  which are captured below.  sequence of functionsvehicle started through ignition key or  1. push button switch.vehicle is in standstill and engine is  2. running.vehicle moves forward and exceeds  3. speed threshold values.when vehicle is to be stopped (sce­ 4. nario: red signal), press the brake and  then, press the clutch. the vehicle  comes to a halt. shift the gear to neu­ tral and release the clutch. engine will  be automatically stopped.  when you want to move (scenario:  5.green signal), press clutch pedal to  start.engine will automatically start when  6. clutch is pressed fully.  this system enables the iss functions au­ tomatically when ignition is turned on. if  you do not want to use this feature, you  can switch it off by pressing the iss off  switch provided in the vehicle.    following conditions will prevent iss  function standby / not enabled  engine hood (bonnet) is open  • reverse gear is engaged.  •outside temperature is too low or too  high  battery system is unhealthy  engine coolant temperature is too low  driver presence is not detected (seatbelt is not fastened)  driver door is open  • any system fault  • warning light will be displayed on the in­ strument cluster to indicate the heathy sta­ tus of this function.  special feature of automatic restart  this system is equipped with a special fea­ ture of automatic restart. under certain  conditions, the engine will automatically  restart on its own in order to meet your  safety and comfort requirements.  this can occur especially when the vehicle  is standstill and following conditions oc­ curred,  battery is being discharged too low.  •vehicle started rolling forwards/ back­ wardsbrake has been pressed repeatedly for  several times/brake pressure too lowwhen the cabin temperature is too  hot/too cold  defrost button is pressed

noteyour vehicle is equipped with iss  function which may automatically  stop and restart the engine. do not  panic and follow the messages on  the display to understand the event.your vehicle is equipped with issuse an alternator that has been ap­ proved by tata motors. otherwise  your iss function may not work.  contact nearest tata motors author­ ized dealer for alternator replace­ ment.use an alternator that has been ap­iss will be available only when dri­ ver’s seat belt is fastened at all  times.iss will be available only when dri­use a battery that has been ap­ proved by tata motors. otherwise  your iss function may not work as  intended. contact nearest tata mo­ tors authorised dealer for battery re­ placement or any issues in battery.use a battery that has been ap­iss function may not be active  when the safety (example: seat  belt) and comfort (example: ac in  high demand) conditions are notiss function may not be activemet. do not panic and follow the  messages on the display to under­ stand the event.do not remove the battery sensor  from battery. removal of battery  sensor will result loss of function.  function will be automatically re­ stored when the vehicle is parked  for a period of three hours.in the event of traffic, iss function  may work with delay in auto-stop  which is intended logic.use a battery sensor that has been  approved by tata motors. otherwise  your iss function may not work as  intended. contact nearest tata mo­ tors authorized dealer for battery  sensor replacement.engine will be automatically started  again when the following safety con­ ditions are met:  driver presence,  gear in neutral, bonnet and doors  should be closed. in case if any of  these criteria are not met, a mes­ sage will pop-up on the screen to indicate the user to start the car man­ ually.to fill up fuel, the engine must be  stopped by turning off the ignition  key / iss button.switch the engine off before you  perform any operation in the engine  compartment.

frequently asked questions  1. what are the advantages of this fea­ ture?  this feature helps to reduce the fuel con­ sumption, co2 emission by automatically  shutting down the engine when the vehi­ cle is in standstill conditions like traffic sig­ nal, traffic jam, etc.  2. when the vehicle is in engine idle  stop start phase, how can i start the ve­ hicle to move?  simply press the clutch fully down to start  the vehicle. no need to use key / push  start switch.  3. can i start the engine only by press­ ing the clutch pedal for the first time  when i enter in vehicle?  no. always the first start has to be through  ignition key or push button.  4. how can i activate / deactivate this  feature?  this feature will be active as default when  ignition is on. if you wish to switch it off,  press the iss switch.5. whether ac will work when the en­ gine is in idle stop start mode?  no. ac function will not be available when  the engine is in idle stop start mode. only  blower will be functional.  6. how to start the engine if feeling too  hot / too cold when engine is in idle  stop start mode?  in the event of higher temperature differ­ ence, engine will automatically restart  without any user input. as an alternate  user can start the vehicle by pressing the  clutch pedal fully.  7. what will happen if press the clutch  continuously in traffic signals?system will not shut down the engine au­ tomatically when the clutch is pressed  continuously.  8. whether i am allowed to crank the  vehicle normally when the system is in  idle stop start mode?  yes. you can perform the normal cranking  by switching off and switch on the ignition  key / push button.  9. whether the vehicle will stop andrestart when the vehicle in gear condi­ tion?  no. idle stop and start function will not  work when the gear level is not in neutral.  smart alternator management  smart alternator management (applicable  if equipped with intelligent alternator con­ trol feature) – a green environment initia­ tive.  your vehicle is equipped with fuel saving  smart alternator management system to  recuperate the brake energy to charge the  battery to help conserve fuel, co2.

working  when the vehicle is running, if the accel­ eration demand is higher than threshold,  smart alternator management system will  allow the battery discharge to reduce the  load on the engine.  when the vehicle is in deceleration and  the accelerator demand is lower than  threshold, smart alternator management  system recuperates the brake energy and  charges the battery.  battery discharge and charge behavior is  dynamic behavior during the vehicle run­ ning.  following conditions will prevent  smart alternator function standby /  not enabledhead lamp on (low / high)  battery system is unhealthy  any system fault.alternator function

frequently asked questions  1. what are the advantages of this fea­ ture?  this feature helps to reduce the fuel con­ sumption, co2 emission by balancing the  battery discharge and charge during the  vehicle running.  2. do i need to adjust my driving pat­ tern to enable this function?  no. this smart function will automatically  perform this smart alternator function and  adjust to your driving pattern.  3. is there any issue to my battery  charging due to this function when i  follow aggressive driving cycle?  no. this smart function is capable enough  to manage the battery charging according  to your drive cycle.  4. do i see any variation in my head  lamp performance when the battery  charge / discharge behavior which is  dynamic?no. this smart function will accommodate  the charge / discharge behavior according  to the head lamp status.5. do i see any perceivable variation in  my system function when this function  executed?  no. this smart function won’t create any  functional issue to the vehicle sys-tem.  you may see some difference in air flow of  blower when it is in higher speed when this  function is active. but this won’t affect the  quality of the vehicle function.warningdeactivate the idle stop start (iss)  function for any operation to be per­ formed in the engine compartment.parking brake  mechanical parking brake acting on the  rear wheels is provided on the vehicle.    parking brake applied  to apply the parking brake, pull the lever  up fully. the parking brake tell-tale light  comes on in the instrument cluster.

parking brake released  to release it, pull the lever up slightly,  press the release button and push the  lever down. the parking brake tell-tale in  the instrument cluster will turn ‘off’ when  the lever is fully released.noteapply the parking brake properly before  leaving the vehicle and release it before  moving.vehicle parkingpark the vehicle in a safe place. switch  on the indicator signal before turning to  park.  apply the parking brake.make sure that all window glasses are  closed and all lamps are turned ‘off’.at night, put on the parking lights if re­ quired.remove the key from the ignition  switch and lock the vehicle.use wheel chocks if the vehicle is  parked on a slope.notewhen parking on a downhill gradient,  place the gear lever in  ‘reverse’ position. while parking on up­ hill gradient, place the gear lever in the  ‘1st’ position.warningnever leave children unsupervised in  the parked vehicle. they could also operate the vehicle’s equipment. there is  a risk of an accident and injury.notedo not use parking brake for braking  unless unavoidable circumstances like  when service brake is not working prop­ erly. the braking distance is consider­ ably longer and the wheels could lock.  there is an increased danger of skid­ ding and accidents.

reverse park assist with  sensor (if available)  reverse park assist system is an elec­ tronic parking aid that will assist you to  park your vehicle safely when in reverse  gear mode. it provides audio and visual in­ formation through the vehicles infotain­ ment system.  always look out for kids, pets and elderly  people behind the vehicle before revers­ ing.    there are ultrasonic sensors placed on the  rear bumper. number of sensors may vary  depending on the variant.  once the system is activated, the sensors  will detect how near the obstacle is from

approximate distance from bumper (in cm),tone information
25 – 40,continuous beep
41 – 80,fast beep
81 – 120,slow beep

reverse park assist limitations  reverse park assist system is not a colli­ sion avoiding system. it is solely the  driver’s responsibility to park the vehicle  safely.  reverse park assist feature works on ultra  sound echo technology, due to which per­ formance is not guaranteed in following  scenarios:if the object has a sharp edge surface,  where surface may divert echoes from  sensor reception.if object is mesh fence made up of thin  wires, where echoes can’t be given by  the surface.fast moving objects passes in the sen­ sor’s field of detection, where echoes  are not processed by the system.if object is made/covered by foam or  sponge or snow where ultrasonic  sound signals are absorbed.objects close to the rear bumper can  go undetected by the reverse park  assist’s field of detection. driver  should use extreme caution whileparking the vehicle.if height of the bumper is changed due  to alteration to the suspension or other  causesif the sensor areas are extremely hot  from direct sunlight or cold due to  freezing weather.if sensors are covered by a hand,  sticker, accessory, etc.if ultrasonic noise is present around  vehicle due to other  vehicle sensors,  horn, engine, air braking system (large  vehicles), exhaust fans, wireless  transmitters or mobile phonesif the vehicle speed exceeds 10kmph,  the system will not warn you even  though objects are detected, error  message ‘vehicle speed is high, drive  slowly!’ will appear.driving on uneven road surfaces e.g.  gravel, unpaved roads, artificial speed  breakers, or gradient.poles of square/rectangular cross sec­ tion might not be detectedwarningdue to any reason, if the sensor gets  misaligned or loses its intended fitment  position, contact your dealer for refit­ ment.noteturning the ignition ‘off’ ‘while the park  assist feature is active would disable it.reverse park assist system preven­ tive maintenanceregularly clean the sensors and keep  them free from dust, ice, mud, water,  chewing gum etc. for proper working of  the system. use a smooth cloth for  cleaning.do not use water at high pressure for  cleaning the sensor or camera.do not cover the sensors surface with  any additional fitment. this will inter­ rupt park assist performance.do not remove mud, snow on the sen­ sors using stick or hard material. use

normal water and soft cloth.  general warningin low light conditions, the screen may  1. darken or image may appear faint.if the tire sizes are changed, the posi­ 2. tion of the fixed guidelines dis-played  on the screen may change.in case of damage of the rear portion  3. of the vehicle, reverse park assist  sensors position may change which  causes wrong visual information on  display. in case of damage make sure  that reverse park assist sensors are  fitted properly at the intended location.in case of uneven road conditions or  4. uphill or downhill conditions, do not de­ pend on reverse park assist aid.do not apply any kind of force on the  5. reverse park assist sensors.always use rear view mirrors along  6. with reverse park assist for con-firm­ ing the safety of the rear and the sur­ rounding conditions.rear view camera (if available)    rear view camera is a visual reverse  guiding system. when reversing or park­ ing, make sure that there are no persons,  animals or objects in the area where you  are reversing.display screen  activation  reverse gear  this system will start, if reverse gear is en­ gaged, or park assist button (if available)  is pressed or manual activation is done  through infotainment screen.  deactivation  system will stop, if reverse gear is disen­ gaged, or park assist button (if available)  is pressed.if started through infotainment, the system  can be stopped using a cross button on in­

fotainment screen.  understanding guidelines indication    green line  you can safely reverse the vehicle, but be  cautious if objects fall in this zone.  yellow line  you have to take utmost care if objects fall  in this zone. however, the objects may not  hit vehicle.  red line  red line indicates that you have to stop re­ versing the vehicle. if you still go back­ wards, the car will hit the obstacle.  do’s and don’tdo not use camera when tailgate is  open. if tailgate is open, visual infor­mation may not be the actual rear view  of the vehicle & system will warn with  message ‘tail gate open, please  close.when the camera is operated under  fluorescent lights, sodium light or mer­ cury light etc., illuminated areas on the  lens may appear to flicker in the dis­ play.do not attach any advertisement or  styling or any kind of stickers on top of  camera. if this happens, camera can­ not provide you the visual image and it  may damage the camera.do not add any accessory, which will  • cause blockage to the camera’s field of  view.  cleaning cameradue to environmental reasons like  1. snow, dust, mud or fog may accumu­ late on the camera lens. so regularly  clean the camera lens.use water to clean the camera lens.  2. do not use extreme cold or hot water.  rapid changes in temperature mayhigh pressure water for cleaning.  wipe the camera lens with soft cloth.  3.do not use hard cloth or material to  4. wipe the camera lens. this will cause  scratches on the camera, and leads to  deteriorated visual image on the dis­ play.do not apply organic solvent, car wax,  5. window cleaner or glass coat to clean  the camera. if this is applied, wipe it off  as soon as possible.do not apply heavy force on lens,  6. while cleaning.do not remove mud, snow on the cam­ 7. era lens using stick or hard material.  use normal water and soft cloth.warningthe camera uses fish eye lens. so  the size of the objects or in the dis­ play may differ from the actual size  and distance.the camera uses fish eye lens. soin low light conditions, the screen  may darken or image may appear  faint.in low light conditions, the screen

if the tire sizes are changed, the po­ sition of the fixed guidelines dis­ played on the screen may change.if the tire sizes are changed, the po­during rainy conditions, image may  get obscured. in such conditions, do  not depend on camera view. the  camera used in the vehicle, may not  reproduce the same color of the real  object.during rainy conditions, image mayin case of damage of the rear por­ tion of the vehicle, camera position  may change. which causes wrong  visual information on display. in  case of damage, make sure that,  camera is fitted properly at the in­ tended location.in case of damage of the rear por­in case of uneven road conditions or  up-hill or downhill conditions, do not  depend on rear view camera park  aid.in case of uneven road conditions ordo not apply any kind of force on  the camera.do not apply any kind of force onalways use rear view mirrors along  with rear view camera for confirm­ ing the safety of the rear and thealways use rear view mirrors alongsurrounding conditions.high humidity and variation in ambi­ ent temperature may result into con­ densation inside the camera lens,  which may further result into degra­ dation of camera video feed on the  screen. it is recommended that not  to rely on camera video feed for  parking assistance in such scenario.  this phenomenon is temporary and  will be automatically recovered with  reduction in humidity and less vari­ ation in ambient temperature.the area displayed by the rear view  camera is limited. the camera does  not display objects that are close to  or below the bumper, underneath  the vehicle, or objects out of the  camera’s field of view. the area dis­ played on the screen may vary ac­ cording to vehicle orientation or  road conditions.rear view camera system precau­ tions  area displayed on screen  the rear view camera system displays an  image of the view from the bumper of the  rear area of the vehicle.

the area displayed on the screen may  vary according to vehicle orientation  conditions.the area displayed on the screen mayobjects, which are close to either cor­ ner of the bumper or under the  bumper, cannot be seen on the  screen.objects, which are close to either cor­the camera may not display items that  are located higher than the camera’s  field of view.the camera may not display items thatwhen sharp up gradient behind the  vehiclenotethe distance guidelines will appear to  be closer to the vehicle than the actual  distance. because of this, objects will  appear to be farther away than they ac­ tually are. in the same way, there will be  a margin of error between the guide­ lines and the actual distance/course on  the road.when sharp down gradient behind  the vehicle

notethe distance guidelines will appear to  be further from the vehicle than the ac­ tual distance.  because of this, objects will appear to  be closer than they actually are. in the  same way, there will be a margin of  error between the guidelines and the  actual distance/course on the road.when any part of the vehicle sags    when any part of the vehicle sags due to  the number of passengers or the distribu­ tion of the load, there is a margin of error  between the fixed guide lines on the  screen and the actual distance/course on  the road.when approaching three-dimensional  objects  the distance guidelines are displayed ac­ cording to flat surfaced objects (such as  the road). it is not possible to determine  the position of three-dimensional objects  (such as vehicles) using the distance  guidelines. when approaching a three-di­ mensional object.

a. distance guidelines    visually check the surroundings and the  area behind the vehicle. on the screen, it  appears that a truck is parked at point b.  however, in reality if you back up to point  a, you will hit the truck. on the screen, it  appears that a is closest and c is furthest  away. however, in reality, the distance to  a and c is the same, and b is further away  from a and c.b. vehicle width guidelinesvisually check the surroundings and the  area behind the vehicle. in the case shown  below, the truck appears to be outside of  the vehicle width guidelines and the vehi­ cle does not look as if it hits the truck.  however, the rear body of the truck may  actually cross over the vehicle width  guidelines. in reality if you back up as  guided by the vehicle width guidelines, the  vehicle may hit the truck.



emergency equipment  you should be familiar with the location of  the emergency equipment provided in the  vehicle and how to use it.  do a check of this equipment periodically  and make sure that they are in proper  working condition and stowed at their lo­ cations.  first aid kit  the first aid kit is kept inside the glove box  compartment.  the kit contains items that can be used in  case of minor injuries only.noteexamine contents of the first aid kit pe­ riodically and replenish consumed or  expired items.tool kit, tow hook, jack and spare  wheel    tool kit and jack are accommodated in  tool kit bag located in the rear boot.  tool kit bag contains  jack handle  • tow hook  • wheel spanner  • jack •notethe jack should be used only to change  wheels. it is important to read the in­ structions in this section before attempt­ ing to use the jack.advance warning triangle  an advance warning triangle is kept near  spare wheel.

use advance warning triangle to warn the  approaching traffic in case of vehicle  break-down or during emergency, where  your vehicle could become a potential traf­ fic hazard.  keep the warning triangle at an approxi­ mate distance of 50-150 m behind your  vehicle in the same lane of traffic. the re­ flecting side of the triangle should face the  oncoming traffic and it should be free from  any obstacles.  remove the advance warning triangle  carefully from the bag and assemble.  refer instructions given on the bag.noteafter using the warning triangle tie it  firmly and keep it inside the bag to avoid  rattling noise.hazard warning switch    press the hazard warning switch to acti­ vate the hazard warning. all the turn signal  lamps will flash simultaneously. to turn  off, press the switch again.use the hazard warning to warn the traffic  during emergency parking or when your  vehicle could otherwise become a traffichazard.  the hazard warning lamps can operate  even if the ignition is switched off.

spare  wheel  removal  processto access the spare wheel, operate  live hinge by rotating the part at upside  from live hinge lift the carpet up.after lifting, hold the carpet to access  the spare wheel.remove the tool kit bag along with  contents.to remove the spare wheel, unscrew  and remove the retaining bolt.in case of flat tyrereduce vehicle speed gradually, avoid  sudden steering movement or braking.pay attention to the traffic conditions  as you do so.  switch on the hazard warning lamps.if possible, bring the front wheels into  the straight-ahead position.stop the vehicle on solid, non-slippery  and level ground, as far away as pos­ sible from traffic.set the parking brake firmly and shift  into “r” (reverse) gear.when the vehicle is in uphill position,  shift the gear in first gear.  switch off the engine.secure the vehicle against rolling  away.keep advance warning triangle at a  suitable distance behind the vehicle as  an indication of breakdown.  close all the doors.use the jack on level, hard ground.  avoid changing the wheel on uphill and

downhill slopes. chock the wheels, if  the deflated wheel needs to be  changed on slope / ghat area.warningif you drive with a flat tyre, there is a risk  of the following hazards:g a flat tyre affects the ability to steery or brake the vehicle.you could lose control of the vehi­ cle.you could lose control of the vehi­continued driving with a flat tyre will  permanently damage the tyre and  cause excessive heat buildup and  possibly a fire. there is a risk of an  accident.continued driving with a flat tyre willchanging flat tyre  loosen the nuts (as indicated) on the  wheel in diagonal sequence. do not un­ screw the nuts completely before raising  the vehicle using the jack.wheel nut removalnotethe jack is designed only to raise  and hold the vehicle for a short time  while a wheel is being changed. it is  not suited for performing mainte­ nance work under the vehicle.the jack is designed only to raiseuse the jack on level, hard ground.  avoid changing the wheel on uphill  and downhill slopes. chock the  wheels, if the deflated wheel needs  to be changed on slope / ghat area.use the jack on level, hard ground.reduce vehicle speed gradually,  avoid sudden steering movement or  braking.reduce vehicle speed gradually,pay attention to the traffic conditions  as you do so.pay attention to the traffic conditionsswitch on the hazard warning  lamps.switch on the hazard warningstop the vehicle on solid, non-slip­ pery and level ground, as far away  as possible from traffic.stop the vehicle on solid, non-slip­before raising the vehicle, secure it  from rolling away by applying the  parking brake.before raising the vehicle, secure itdo not use wooden blocks or similar  objects as a jack underlay.do not use wooden blocks or similardo not place your hands and feet or  lie under the raised vehicle when it  is supported by a jack.do not place your hands and feet ordo not run the engine when the ve­ hicle is supported by the jack and  never allow passengers to remain in  the vehicle.do not run the engine when the ve­do not open or close a door or the  tailgate when the vehicle is raised.do not open or close a door or the

use the jack on level, hard ground.  avoid changing the wheel on uphill  and downhill slopes. chock the  wheels, if the deflated wheel needs  to be changed on slope /ghat area.use the jack on level, hard ground.if possible, bring the front wheels in  to the straight-ahead position.if possible, bring the front wheels insecure the vehicle against rolling  away.secure the vehicle against rollingset the parking brake firmly and  shift into “r” (reverse gear) on level  ground and while vehicle is in down­ hill position.set the parking brake firmly andwhen the vehicle is in uphill posi­ tion, shift the gear in first gear.when the vehicle is in uphill posi­assemble the jack handle and wheel  spanner (as shown in fig.)  position the jack vertically and raise it by  turning the jack handle clockwise until the  jack sits completely on the specified point  and the base of the jack lies evenly on the  ground.  the jack up points are indicated by cutouts  on the front and rear.jacking point location on vehicle  front jacking locationrear jacking locationwarningif you do not position the jack correctly  at the appropriate jacking point of the  vehicle, the jack could tip over with the  vehicle raised. there is a risk of injury.  also jack can be damaged.continue to raise the jack slowly and  smoothly until the tyre clears the ground.  do not raise the vehicle more than re­ quired.

lifting the front wheel using jacklifting the rear wheel using jack    remove wheel nuts with the help of wheel  spanner and take out flat tyre.notedo not place wheel nuts in sand or on a  dirty surface. do not apply oil or grease  on it.roll the spare wheel into position and align  the holes in the wheel studs.  tighten each nut by hand until the wheelis securely seated on the hub.  lower the jack completely then tighten the  wheel nuts one by one using wheel span­ ner.  press fit the wheel cover back (if applica­ ble).  restore all the tools and jack at their re­ spective locations.  place the flat tyre at spare wheel locationnotedo a check and correct the tyre  pressure and wheel nuts tightness  of the changed wheel at nearest au­ thorised service station. get the flat  tyre repaired at the earliest.do a check and correct the tyreplace the jack only at recommended  jacking locations.place the jack only at recommendeddo not put jack under any part of  rear axle.do not put jack under any part of

puncture repair kit (if avail­ able)  introductionwarningcompliance with these instructions is  vital to ensure vehicle safety. non-com­ pliance with these instructions means  risking tire damage, which can affect  vehicle handling and lead to loss of ve­ hicle control. this may result in serious  injury or death. inform all other users of  the vehicle if standard items for dealing  with a puncture (e.g. spare tire) have  been replaced by the puncture repair  kit.the puncture repair kit seals most tire  punctures to restore temporarily mobility.  recommended use only for passenger car  ground tires only and vehicle tire inflation  pressure up to 300 kpa (3 bar, 43 psi). the  system consists of a compressor and a  sealant, and serves to effectively and con­ veniently seal punctures in car tires  caused, for example, by nails or similar“ (6 mm).  depending on the type and extent of tire  damage, some tires can only be partially  sealed or not sealed at all. loss of tire  pressure can affect vehicle handling, lead­ ing to loss of vehicle control. ob-serve the  following rules when using the puncture  repair kit:drive with caution and avoid making  sudden steering or driving maneuvers , maneuvers, especially if the vehicle  is heavily loaded or you are towing a  trailer.the system will provide you with an  emergency temporary repair, enabling  you to continue your journey to the  next vehicle or tire dealer, or to drive a  maximum distance of 200 km (120  miles).do not exceed a maximum speed of  80 km/h (50 mph).keep the puncture repair kit out of the  reach of children.once the puncture repair kit has been  used for a temporary tire repair, theapplicable) shall be checked by an ex­ pert and replaced if necessary.  these instructions provide a step-by-step  explanation of how to use the puncture re­ pair kit to temporarily repair a tire punc­ ture.  please read the section on “how to pro­ ceed in the event of a tire puncture”.warningdo not use the puncture repair kit if the  tire has already been damaged as a re­ sult of being driven underinflated. do  not try to seal damage other than that  located within the visible tread of the  tire. do not try to seal damage to the  tire’s sidewall.

location in vehicle  in luggage compartmentpuncture  repair  kit  removal  processpuncture  repair  kit  removalto access the puncture repair kit open  the tailgate.to access the puncture repair kit openremove the two velcro as shown in  figure and take out the puncture repair  kit.remove the two velcro as shown in

step

instructions on how to use the  puncture repair kit safelyuse product with original vehicle  ground tires only.only use the puncture repair kit with  tubeless tires.if used for other than its intended pur­ pose, the puncture repair kit may  cause severe accident or injury due to  the fact that compressed air can act as  an explosive or propellant.park your vehicle at the roadside so  that you do not obstruct the flow of traf­ fic and you are able to use the punc­ ture repair kit without being in danger.engage the hand brake, even if you  have parked on a level road, to ensure  that the vehicle will not move.do not attempt to remove foreign ob­ jects like nails or screws penetrating  the tire. leave them as they are.leave the engine running while the  puncture repair kit is in use, but not if  the vehicle is in an enclosed or poorly  ventilated area.never leave the puncture repair kit un­ attended while in use.never leave the puncture repair kit un­do not keep the compressor operating  for more than 10 minutes otherwise  there is a risk of it over-heating.do not keep the compressor operatingreplace the sealant bottle with a new  one before the expiration date is  reached (see bottle label). in case that  the sealant is expired the functionality  cannot be fully guaranteed. only use  original puncture re-pair kit bottles  which are pressure resistant.replace the sealant bottle with a newhow to proceed in the event of tyre  puncture  you can temporarily repair a tire puncture  in two steps.first pump the tire sealant and air into the  tire (see step 1). immediately thereafter,  drive a short distance (3-10 km / 2-6 miles)  in order to distribute the sealant in the tire.  after that, check the tire pressure and  pump more air into the tire if necessary  (see step 2). then you can proceed to  drive with caution for a maximum distance  of 200 km (120 miles) and at a maxi-mum  speed of 80 km/h (50 mph).inform all other users of the vehicle that  the tire has been temporarily sealed with  the puncture repair kit and make them  aware of the special driving conditions to  be observed.warningneed to drain fluid from tire before re­ pair.step 1 :pumping the tyre sealant and  air into the tyrepeel off the decal denoting the maxi­ 1. mum permissible speed (80 km/h | 50  mph) from the casing and attach it to  the edge of the windscreen as shown  on the picture.take the hose and power plug with  2. cable out of the puncture repair kit  casing. unscrew the orange cap of the  bottle connector.unscrew the red cap of the sealant  3. bottle. (shake sealant bottle well be­ fore use.

warningleave the bottle seal intact. screwing  the bottle onto the bottle holder will  pierce the seal of the bottle. avoid skin  contact with the sealant which contains  natural rubber latex. do not open pres­ sure “air release” valve. please use pro­ tective glove for safety purpose.screw the bottle clockwise firmly  4. against the slight resistance of the  notches onto the sealing gasket of the  bottle connector until it is screwed  tight.screw the bottle clockwise firmly  4.remove the valve cap from the dam­ 5. aged tire. pull the protective cap off the  end of the hose and screw the hose  firmly onto the valve of the damaged  tire. make sure that the compressor  switch is switched to “0” and the pres­ sure “air release” valve is closed.remove the valve cap from the dam­ 5.insert power plug into the 12 volt  6. power socket connection.insert power plug into the 12 volt  6.start the engine (only if the vehicle is  7. outdoors or in a well ventilated area).start the engine (only if the vehicle is  7.warningasphyxiation may occur if the engine is  allowed to run in a non-ventilated or  poorly ventilated area (e.g. inside a  building)press compressor switch to “i”.  8.notecheck the sidewall of the tire prior to in­ flation. if there are any cracks, bumps  or similar damage, do not attempt to in­ flate the tire. do not stand directly be­ side the tire while the compressor is  pumping. watch the sidewall of the tire.  if any cracks, bumps or similar damage  appear, turn off the compressor and let  the air out by means of the pressure “air  release” valve. in this case, do not con­ tinue to use the tire.notewhen pumping in the sealant through  the tire valve, the pressure may rise up  to 500 kpa (5 bar, 73 psi) but will drop  again after about 30 seconds.inflate the tire within about 10 minutes  9. to an inflation pressure of minimum  180 kpa, (1.8 bar, and 26   psi) and a  maximum of 300 kpa (3 bar, 43 psi).inflate the tire within about 10 minutes  9.switch off the compressor briefly in  10. order to read the actual tire pressure  from the pressure gauge.switch off the compressor briefly in  10.warningif heavy vibrations, unsteady steering  behavior or noises should occur while  driving, reduce your speed and drive  with caution to a place where it is safe  for you to stop the vehicle. recheck the  tire and its pressure. if the tire pressure  is less than 130 kpa (1.3 bar, 19 psi) or  if there are any visible cracks, bumps or  similar damage on the side wall, do not  continue to use the tire!

11, 12.  once a tire inflation pressure of at  least 180 kpa (1.8 bar, 26 psi) has been  reached.  switch the compressor to “0”.  •pull the power plug from the 12 volt  power socket connection.slowly unscrew the hose from the tire  valve (sealant residues may escape  from the hose) and put the protective  cap back onto the hose.leave the bottle in the holder. this  avoids unexpected leakage of sealant  residue.make sure the puncture repair kit, the  • cap of the bottle and the orange cap  are stored safely, but are still easily ac­ cessible, in the vehicle.  the kit will be needed again when you  check the tire pressure.  13, 14.  immediately start and drive for  about 3-10 km (2-6 miles) so that the  sealant can seal the damaged area. do  not drive for more than 10 min and not any  faster than 80 km/h (50 mph) (observe the  decal indicating the   permissible speed).warningif heavy vibrations, unsteady steering  behavior or noises should occur while  driving, reduce your speed and drive  with caution to a place where it is safe  for you to stop the vehicle. recheck the  tire and its pressure. if the tire pressure  is less than 130 kpa (1.3 bar, 19 psi) or  if there are any visible cracks, bumps or  similar damage on the side wall, do not  continue to use the tire!step 2 checking the tyre pressure  15.    stop the vehicle after driving about  3-10 km (2-6 miles). check and, where  necessary, adjust the pressure of the dam­ aged tire. remove the protective cap from  the end of the hose. screw the hose firmly  onto the valve of the damaged tire.  16.  read the tire pressure from the pres­ sure gauge.  if the pressure of the sealant-filled tire is  130 kpa (1.3 bar, 19 psi) or more, it must  now be adjusted to the pressure specified  for your vehicle (refer sticker on vehicle).warningif the tire check shows that the pressure  of the sealant-filled tire is less than 130  kpa (1.3 bar, 19 psi) or if there are any  visible cracks, bumps or similar tire  damage on the side wall, you must not  continue to use that tire.make sure that the compressor switch  is switched off to “0”.make sure that the compressor switchinsert the power plug into the 12 volt  power socket connection.insert the power plug into the 12 voltstart the engine (only if the vehicle is  outdoors or in a well ventilated area).start the engine (only if the vehicle iswarningasphyxiation may occur if the engine is  allowed to run in a non-ventilated or  poorly ventilated area (e.g. inside a  building )17,18.  switch the compressor on to “i”  and pump the tire up to the specified tire  pressure within max. 10 minutes.

notecompressor unit we can use for filling  the air & checking the pressure of the  normal tyre.switch the compressor off and check  the tire pressure again. if tire pressure  is too high, deflate the tire to the spec­ ified pressure using the pressure “air  release” valve.switch the compressor off and checkrest of the remaining sealant in the  hose might leak out when opening  pressure “air release” valve or taking  off the protective cap of the hose.  please use protective glove for safety  purpose.rest of the remaining sealant in theonce you have inflated the tire to its  correct tire pressure, switch off the  compressor, pull the plug out of the  socket, unscrew the hose, fasten the  tire valve cap and put back on the pro­once you have inflated the tire to itstective cap of the hose.leave the bottle in the holder and store  the puncture repair kit away safely in  the vehicle trunk.warningafter using the sealant you may drive  no faster than 80 km/h (50 mph), and  the damaged tire must be replaced as  quickly as possible (with in a maximum  driving distance of 200 km (120 miles)).  you must not continue to drive if heavy  vibrations, unsteady steering behavior  or noises should occur while driving.19, 20.   drive to the nearest workshop to  get the damaged tyre repaired and if the  tyre repair is not possible, tyre should be  removed from the car. before the tire is re­ moved from the rim, inform your tire dealer  that the tire contains sealant. sealant de­ posits in a used hose may impair proper  function of the puncture repair kit. both  the sealant bottle and the hose need to be  replaced together after using the puncture  repair kit.noteremember that emergency roadside  tire repair kits only provide temporary  mobility. regulation concerning tire re­ pair after usage of puncture repair kit  may differ from country to country. you  should consult a tire specialist for ad­ vice.warningbefore driving, ensure tire is adjusted to  recommended inflation pressure as in­ dicated on vehicle placard. monitor tire  pressure until sealed tire is replaced.  proceed as described above from point  15 onwards.new sealant and replacement parts can  be purchased from your authorized repair  shop or dealer. sealant bottles can be dis­ posed with house-hold waste.

jump starting your car  for  petrol na non iac/iss variants  (if available)     use only a battery of same rating & capac­ ity to jump start your vehicle. position the  booster battery close to your vehicle so  that the jump leads will reach both batter­ ies.  when using a battery of another vehicle,  do not let the vehicles touch. apply the  parking brake firmly and keep the gearshift  lever in neutral.  turn off all vehicle accessories, except  those necessary for safety like hazard  warning lamps.  make jump lead connections as follows:connect one end of the first jump lead  to the positive (+) terminal of the dis­ charged battery.connect the other end to the positive  (+) terminal of the booster battery.connect one end of the second jump  lead to the negative (–) terminal of the  booster battery.make the final connection (other end of  the negative terminal) to an unpainted,  heavy metal part (i.e. engine mounting  stud/nut) of the vehicle of discharged  battery.make the final connection (other end ofstart the engine of the vehicle with the  discharged battery.start the engine of the vehicle with thebefore disconnecting the jumper ca­ bles, let the engine run for several min­ utes.before disconnecting the jumper ca­if the booster battery you are using is  fitted to another vehicle, start the en­ gine of the vehicle with the booster bat­ tery. run the engine at moderateif the booster battery you are using isspeed.remove the jump leads in the exact  reverse order in which you connected  them.notedo not disconnect the discharged bat­ tery from the vehicle.warningdo not connect the jump lead di­ rectly to the negative (–) terminal of  the discharged battery. this may  lead to an explosion.do not connect the jump lead di­do not allow battery electrolyte to  come in contact with eyes, skin, fab­ rics or painted surfaces. the fluid  contains acid which can cause in­ jury and severe damage. wear pro­ tective apparel. do not inhale any  battery gases. keep children away  from batteries. in case if battery acid  comes in contact with the skin, wash  it off immediately with water and  seek medical attention.do not allow battery electrolyte to

during charging and jump-starting,  explosive gases can escape from  the battery. there is a risk of an ex­ plosion. particularly avoid fire, open  flames, creating sparks and smok­ ing. make sure that there is suffi­ cient ventilation while charging and  jump-starting. do not lean over the  battery.during charging and jump-starting,make sure that the positive terminal  of a connected battery does not  come into contact with vehicle parts.  never place metal objects or tools  on a battery.make sure that the positive terminalit is important that you observe the  described order of the battery termi­ nals when connecting and discon­ necting a battery. if you are in doubt,  seek assistance from qualified spe­ cialist workshop.it is important that you observe thedo not connect or disconnect the  battery terminals while the engine is  running.do not connect or disconnect thenoteif your vehicle is equipped with a battery  sensor, connect the jump start leads on  output terminal of battery sensor. do not  connect the jump start leads on sensor  surface or battery terminal. this will re­ sult of function loss of battery sensor.for petrol na iac/iss variants  following method to be adopted while per­ forming battery disconnection for any  service on vehicle, jump start and exter­ nal battery charging.always remove the battery negative  from battery sensor output side. never  remove the battery sensor directly  from battery. this will result battery  learning loss and this act will switch off  the iss function.while performing jump start, ensure  that the jump start battery negative ter­ minal is connected to battery sensor  output as shown below.while performing external charging,  ensure that charging circuit ground isconnected to battery sensor out-put  as shown below.    do and don’t  do  use only authorized battery sensor.  • use only authorized battery.  •always disconnect the battery sensor  • output for any service on vehicle.  don’tdo not remove the battery sensor if it  is not necessary.  do not mallet / hammer the battery

sensor to fix on battery pole.do not place the battery sensor on  positive pole.do not remove the battery sensor con­ nector.noteamaron 60d23 (60ah) enhanced  flooded battery to be replaced with  amaron 60d23 (60ah) enhanced  flooded battery only.amaron 60d23 (60ah) enhanceduse only authorised battery and  battery sensor recommended byuse only authorised battery andtata motors. use of any other  unauthorized battery or battery  sensor will result in to intelligent al­ ternator control (iac) and idle stop  start (iss )function deterioration.towing    when towing a break down vehicle, cer­ tain precautions and procedures must be  taken to prevent damage to the vehicle  and/or components. failure to use stan­ dard towing precautionary measures when  lifting or towing a break down vehicle could  result in an unsafe operating condition.  to correctly tow and prevent accidental  damage to your vehicle, take help of a  tata motors authorized dealer or a  commercial tow-truck service.

notemake sure that the parking brake is re­ leased; vehicle is in neutral and steering  wheel is unlocked. the power steering  functions only when engine is running.  hence, during towing the steering ef­ forts will be more.warningdo not get under your vehicle after  it has been lifted by a tow truck.do not get under your vehicle afterfor towing a vehicle, the best way is  to use a wrecker. alternatively use a  rigid tow bar.for towing a vehicle, the best way isswitch ‘on’ the hazard warning in­ dicators of both the vehicles to warn  other road users.switch ‘on’ the hazard warning in­limit the speed to 20-30 kmph.in case of brake failure, use the  parking brake to control the vehicle.fasten the tow rope or tow bar at  the towing eyes. otherwise, the ve­ hicle could be damaged.when towing, pull away slowly and  smoothly. if the tractive power is too  high, the vehicles could be dam­ aged.when towing, pull away slowly andrecommended towing  in case of break down, we recommend  that your vehicle be towed with the driving  wheels off the ground or place the vehicle  on a flatbed truck as shown.warningdo not tow your vehicle with the  front wheels on the ground or four  wheels on the ground (forward or  backward), as this may cause seri­ ous damage to the transmission.do not tow your vehicle with thewhen towing with the rear wheels  on the ground or on towing dollies,  place the ignition switch in the ‘acc’  or ‘on’ position, and secure the  steering wheel in the straight-ahead  position with a rope or similar de­ vice.when towing with the rear wheelstow hook fitmentopen the tailgate and remove tow  hook from the tool kit.

open the tow hook cover provided on  the front bumper by pressing it at the  bottom part and simultaneously pulling  it at the top (as shown in fig).open the tow hook cover provided onscrew in and tighten the tow hook in  clockwise direction.screw in and tighten the tow hook inafter towing, remove the towing hook  and press fit the cover properly.after towing, remove the towing hookplace the towing hook in the vehicle  tool kit.place the towing hook in the vehiclefuses  your vehicle has fuse boxes at three loca­ tions.  the vehicles electrical circuits have fuses  to protect the wiring from short circuits or  sustained overload.    battery mounted fuse box.  1. engine compartment fuse box.  2. cabin compartment fuse box. 3.

checking and replacing fuses  if any electrical unit in your vehicle is not  functioning, check the fuses first.  please follow the steps below that will  guide you to check and replace them.  apply parking brake  • switch off all electrical accessories.  •turn the ignition key to the ‘lock’ po­ sition.in the fuse box, identify the defective  fuse from its melted wire.remove the defective fuse by “fuse  puller”. the fuse puller and spare fuses  are provided in the engine compart­ ment fuse box.  defective fuses must be replaced withfuses of same rating, which you can  recognize by color and value.notealways make sure that the spare fuses  are added.make sure that all other fuses are  pressed firmly in position.if a newly inserted fuse also blows,  have the cause traced and rectified at  nearest tata motors authorized  dealer/service center immediately.warningif you manipulate or bridge a faulty  fuse or if you replace it with a fuse  with higher amperage, the electric  cables could be overloaded. this  could result in a fire. there is a risk  of an accident and injury.if you manipulate or bridge a faultyalways replace faulty fuses with the  specified new fuses having the cor­ rect amperage.always replace faulty fuses with thebattery mounted fuse box

fusefuse  no. functionpf1 starter motor 200 a pf2 ibs  5awarningif fuse box cover is removed for any  reason, it should be refitted properly in  its original position.fuses - engine compartmentfuserat­ingnotethe fuse box layout is for reference pur­ pose only. please refer the sticker pro­ vided inside the fuse box cover.

fuse no.,function,fuse rat­ ing
pf1,starter motor,200 a
pf2,ibs,5a

fuse no.,function,fuse rat­ ing
f0,-,-
f1,cockpit f/b supply,60a
f2,radiator fan-1,40a
f3,starter solenoid batt,25a
f4,head lamp high beam,15a
f5,fuel pump batt,15a
f6,head lamp low beam,15a
f7,tcu battery 2,10a
f8,-,-
f9,tcu,30a
f10,epas,60a
f11,-,-
f12,under bonnet f/r box,60a
f13,ems batt,10a
f14,compressor,10a
f15,abs ecu batt,25a

fusefuse  no. functionf16 horn batt 15a f17 brake lamp batt 10a f18 abs pump 40a f19 interior f/b batt 60a f20 ignition load 60a f21 ignition coil 15a f22 - - f23 - - f24 abs ecu ignition 5a f25 amt ign 10a f26 - -f27 ems relay coils &  sensors 15a f28 ems ecu supply 20a f29 ems injector 10a f30 front wiper motor 20a f31 rear wiper 10a f32 starter mo-tor f/b 5af33f34fusefuserat­fuse  no. functioningreversef35lamps/brakeswitchf36 f37 f38

fuse no.,function,fuse rat­ ing
f16,horn batt,15a
f17,brake lamp batt,10a
f18,abs pump,40a
f19,interior f/b batt,60a
f20,ignition load,60a
f21,ignition coil,15a
f22,-,-
f23,-,-
f24,abs ecu ignition,5a
f25,amt ign,10a
f26,-,-
f27,ems relay coils & sensors,15a
f28,ems ecu supply,20a
f29,ems injector,10a
f30,front wiper motor,20a
f31,rear wiper,10a
f32,starter mo-tor f/b,5a
f33,-,-
f34,-,-

fuse no.,function,fuse rat­ ing
f35,reverse lamps/brake switch,10a
f36,-,-
f37,-,-
f38,-,-

re-fitment procedure  align bottom lugs and push upper part with  respective slots on dash board and press  the cover firmly.  fuses - cabin compartmentre-fitment procedure  align bottom lugs and push upper part with  respective slots on dash board and press  the cover firmly.  fuses - cabin compartmentfusefuse  no. function fuse  ratingf1 tailgate release 10af2 rpas /telematics  ign 5a f3 acc batt/obd 15a f4 accessories fuse 5a f4 peps/blower rly 5af5 heated rear  screen bcm 25a f6 hvac/ fatc 10af7 bcm2- base/mid  bcm 20a f8 bcm3-mid bcm 20a f9 bcm1-base/mid bcm 20a f10 ign fuse-2 10af11 immob/epas/peps- ign 5af12 restraints con­ trol 10a f13 power socket1 15af14 mirror adjust  motor 5a f15 power socket-2 15afusefuse  no. function fuse  ratingratingrelay coil 5af16peps/escl ecu- batt 10af17 immobiliser 5a f18 cdl 15a f19 keyin / tele batt 5a f20 cluster 5a f21 blower motor  30af22  transist/infotain­ ment 20a

fuse no.,function,fuse rating
f1,tailgate release,10a
f2,rpas /telematics ign,5a
f3,acc batt/obd,15a
f4,accessories fuse,5a
f4,peps/blower rly,5a
f5,heated rear screen bcm,25a
f6,hvac/ fatc,10a
f7,bcm2- base/mid bcm,20a
f8,bcm3-mid bcm,20a
f9,bcm1-base/mid bcm,20a
f10,ign fuse-2,10a
f11,immob/epas/peps- ign,5a
f12,restraints con­ trol,10a
f13,power socket1,15a
f14,mirror adjust motor,5a
f15,power socket-2,15a

fuse no.,function,fuse rating
f16,relay coil,5a
,peps/escl ecu- batt,10a
f17,immobiliser,5a
f18,cdl,15a
f19,keyin / tele batt,5a
f20,cluster,5a
f21,blower motor,30a
f22,transist/infotain­ ment,20a



sn,description,rating,type,qty.
1,high beam,"12v, 55w (hv) 12v, 60w (lv)",h7 (hv) h4 (lv),2
2,low beam,"12v, 55w",h7 (hv)/h4 (lv),2
3,tail/position,"6.5w led (hv) 12v, 5w (lv)",domiled dwa-hkg27 (hv) p21w/5w (lv),2
4,stop,"5.76w led (hv) 12v, 21w (lv)",domiled d6a-skg 9 (hv) p21w/5w (lv),2
5,reverse (tail lamp),"12v, 16w",w16w,2
6,turn,"12v, 21w",wy21w,2
7,hmsl,"12v, 25w",bulb,1
8,drl,"12v, 9.5w",led,2
9,position,"12v, 1.2w (hv)/12v 5w (lv)",led (hv)/bulb (lv),2
10,turn,"12v, 21w",py21w,2
11,front fog,"12v, 19w",h16,2
12,roof lamp,"12v, 5w",bulb w5w,1
13,glove box lamp,"12v, 5w",w5w,1
14,rear reverse lamp,"12v, 21w",p21w,1
15,puddle lamp,"12v, 5w",bulb,2
16,reg. plate lamp,"12v, 5w",bulb,1
17,luggage lamp,"12v, 5w",bulb,1

head lamp bulb replacementswarningdo not run the engine when you  change bulbs.do not run the engine when youif the engine has been running just  prior to replacing bulbs in the head­ light housing, please keep in mind  that components in the engine com­ partment will be hot.if the engine has been running justnoteyour vehicle’s headlamps have replace­ able halogen bulbs.replacing the low beam bulb  lift the bonnet to access the bulbs.  1.remove the bulb access cover by ro­ 2. tating as per the direction arrow shown  on the cover.press the pin and pull the connect-or  3. from the bulb.to free the headlamp bulb from the  4. socket, press and swing the retaining  spring and pull it straight back.  pull out the bulb from the socket.  5.insert the new bulb (without touching  6.the glass) into the socket.move the retaining spring up and push  7. it slightly until it locks properly.refit the connector in to the bulb & ro­ 8. tate the bulb access cover as per the  direction arrow shown on the cover.warningit is dangerous if a halogen bulb  breaks. these bulbs contain pres­ surized gas and if broken, will ex­ plode causing serious in-jury by the  flying glass.it is dangerous if a halogen bulbhalogen bulbs can break if the glass  portion is touched with bare hands,  body oil could cause the bulb to  heat unevenly and explode when lit.halogen bulbs can break if the glassnever touch the glass portion of the  bulb with your bare hands and al­ ways wear eye protection when  handling or working around halogen  bulbs. always keep halogen bulbs  out of the reach of children.never touch the glass portion of the

24 x 7 road assistance  dear customer,  it is our responsibility and our endeavor to  ensure that you have our complete service  backup if ever, wherever and whenever  you need the same. when you have a  road network that spans wide area, the  probability of a breakdown happening  within hailing distance of a tata motors  authorized workshop is very low.  it is precisely for this reason, we have tied  up with tvs aa, who will provide break­ down assistance including towing to the  nearest tata motors authorized work­ shop through their authorized service  providers (asp).  the 24x7 on road assistance program  shall be automatically available to your ve­ hicle for the duration of warranty period.  the program shall also be available, if you  avail the same post warranty.

within city limits,60 minutes
on state or na­ tional highways,90 minutes
ghat roads and other places,120 minutes +/-

on your vehicle during warranty period.  wheel change through spare wheel.  •arrangement of fuel. (fuel cost will be  chargeable at actual cost).re-opening the vehicle in cases of key  lock out.rectification of electrical problems re­ lated to battery, fuses etc.on spot repairs for complaints re­ pairable at site. ^vehicle to vehicle towing or winching &g g towing for non-accident cases up to  the nearest tata motors authorized  dealer/service  center.  towingg charges at actual cost beyond the  same to be paid to the asp in cash.  (any ferry or toll charges levied in re­ lation to the vehicle being towed to be  paid by the customers in actuals in  cash).for accident cases, towing charges to be  borne by the customer.  ii. the 24x7 on road assistance pro­ gram coverage on availing the 24x7 pol­ icy, post warranty is upto maximum of 6instance of assistance in one year for both  the plans- basic and premium. in the pre­ mium plan, this includes 2 instances of  towing up to the nearest tata motors  authorized dealer/service center.  exclusions  24 x 7 on road assistance program  does not apply tocost of parts consumables and labor  for such repairs not covered under  warranty*. these charges are to be  settled with asp in cash.toll or ferry charges paid by asp in  reaching to the breakdown site to be  settled with asp in actuals in cash.cases involving accident, fire, theft,  vandalism, riots, lightening, earth- quake, windstorm, hail, tsunami, un­ usual weather conditions, other acts of  god, flood, etc.vehicles that are unattended, un-reg­ istered, impounded or abandoned.breakdown/defects caused by misuse,  abuse, negligence, alterations or mod­ ifications made to the vehicle.lack of maintenance as per the main­ tenance schedule as detailed in the  owner’s manual.lack of maintenance as per the main­cases involving racing, rallies, vehicle  testing or practice for such events.cases involving racing, rallies, vehicledisclaimerthe service is not available in lak­ shadweep.**the reach time is indicative & the ac­ tual reach time will be conveyed by the  call center at the time of breakdown  call.the reach time can vary depending on  the traffic density & time of the day.the reach time indicated does not ac­ count for delays due to but not limited  to acts of god, laws, rules & regula­ tions for time being in force, orders of  statutory or govt. authorities, industrial  disputes, inclement weather, heavy  down pour, floods, storms, natural  calamities, road blocks due to acci­ dents, general strife and law & order  conditions viz. fire, arson, riots, strikes,  terrorist attacks, war etc.

^ on spot repairs at breakdown site shall  depend on nature of complaints & will be  as per the discretion of the asp.  * the decision for free of charge re-pairs  will be as per the warranty policy & proce- dures of tata motors passenger  vehicle  limited  and  as  per  the  interpretation of the same by asp. you will  be duly informed by the asp & call  center for the change applicable if any.all charges wherever applicable need • to be settled directly with the asp. exclusion of liabilities  • it is understood that tata motors  shall be under no liability whatsoever  in respect of any loss or dam-age aris- ing directly or indirectly out of any  delay in or non-delivery of, defect/defi- ciency in service/parts provided by  asp. • in case vehicle cannot be repaired on- site, customers are advised to use the  towing facility for taking their vehicle to  the nearest tata motors authorized  workshop only. in no condition shall  the vehicle be towed to any unautho- rized work-shop. tata motors willnot be responsible for any repairs car- ried out in such unauthorized work- shop.customer are advised to take acknowl-edgment from the asp for the list of ac- cessories/extra fittings and other belongings in the vehicle as well as the current  condition  related  todents/scratches  break-ages  ofg parts/fitments of the vehicle at the time  of asp taking possession of the vehi- cle & to verify these items when deliv- ery is taken back by them, claim for  loss of or damage to items, if any  should be taken up with asp directly.  tata motors shall not be responsi- ble for any such claims, damages/loss  or any deficiency of service of the asp.vehicles will be handled, repaired & towed as per the customer’s risk & tata motors shall not be liable for any damages / claims as a result of the same.vehicles will be handled, repaired &services entitled to the customers can be refused or cancelled on account of abusive behavior, fraudulent represen-services entitled to the customers cantation, malicious intent and refusal to  pay the charges for any charges re- lated services and spare parts during  service or on previous occasions on  part of the customer.on site repairs may be temporary in nature. the completion of repairs does not certify the road worthiness of the vehicle. the customer is advised to en- sure temporary re-pairs carried out on- site is followed by permanent repairs at a tata motors authorised dealer/service center at the earliest. terms and conditions and service cov- erage, exclusions etc. are subject to change without notice.



maintenance and service  periodic maintenance is essential for en­ suring long trouble free performance.  have your vehicle serviced regularly from  tata motors authorized dealer/service  center.  there is a large network of tata mo­ tors authorized service centre to help  you with their professional servicing ex­ pertise. scheduled maintenance informa­ tion is provided which makes tracking  routine service easy.  the following checks can be carried out  between the recommended scheduled  maintenance services. take help of our  authorized service center for assistance.engine oil level  engine coolant level  brake fluid levelwasher fluid level checking & top-ping  up  battery electrolyte leveltyre inflation pressure including spare  wheelnoterefer “opening and closing” section for  engine bonnet opening.warningbe careful not to touch a hot engine,  exhaust manifold and pipes, muffler,  radiator and water hoses.be careful not to touch a hot engine,do not work on a vehicle with the  engine running in an enclosed  space, unless you are sure of  enough ventilation.do not work on a vehicle with thekeep all open flames and other  burning material (such as ciga­ rettes) away from the battery and all  fuel related parts.keep all open flames and otherif you need to do any work inside the  engine compartment,  switch off the ignition  •if you need to do any work inside the  engine compartment,never reach into the area where  there is a risk of danger from mov­ ing components, such as the fan ro­ tation area.never reach into the area wherekeep clothing away from moving  parts.keep clothing away from moving

engine compartment (mt)&htab  brake fluid reservoir  1. dipstick – engine oil  2. windshield washer container 3.engine oil filling cap  4.radiator cap  5. fuse box  6.battery 7.

engine compartment (amt)&htab  brake fluid reservoir  1. dipstick – engine oil  2. windshield washer container  3.engine oil filling cap  4. radiator cap  5.fuse box  6.battery  7. amt oil reservoir 8.

engine oil level    dipstick location engine oil  warm up the engine to normal operating  temperature.  turn it ‘off’ and wait for 5 minutes for the  oil to return to the oil pan. be sure the ve­ hicle is on a level surface.  take out the dipstick, wipe it clean, and  reinsert it fully. pull it out again and exam­ ine the oil level. it should be between ‘min’  and ‘max’ level. if not, top up with recom­ mended engine oil.notethe oil consumption depends upon the  driving style and the conditions under  which the vehicle is used.dipsticknotedo not remove the filler cap when the  engine is running.  do not add oil above than the max.  mark. oil level above the max. mark  may cause engine damage.for location of engine oil filling cap and  dip stick, please refer image of the re­ spective engine compartment.

brake fluid level  brake fluid reservoirbrake fluid leveltween the ‘min’ and ‘max’ marks provided  on the side of the brake fluid container. if  the level falls below the ‘min’ mark, add  recommended brake fluid.notedo not allow brake fluid to make contact  with the skin or eyes.  do not allow brake fluid to splash or spill  on the paint surface as it will damage  the paint. in case of spillage, wipe it off  immediately.for location of brake fluid container  and filling cap, please refer respective  engine compartment.engine coolant level    examine whether the coolant level is be­ tween the ‘min’ and ‘max’ marks provided  on the coolant reservoir.  when the coolant level is low, top up with  recommended coolant through filler of no  loss tank until the level approaches the  max level line. refer ‘technical informa­ tion’ section.

notein case of emergency, a large amount  of water without engine coolant may be  added in order to reach a vehicle serv­ ice location.whenever coolant has been added, the  coolant level in the coolant reservoir  should be checked the next few times you  drive the vehicle to confirm correct level.  for location of engine coolant con­ tainer and filler cap, please refer image  of engine compartment.notetopping up of the coolant should be  done in the auxiliary tank only.make sure that only tata motors rec­ ommended coolant is used. mixing of dif­ ferent coolants may harm your engine’s  cooling system and its components. do  not add extra inhibitors or additives to the  coolant. these can be harmful and com­ promise the corrosion protection of the en­warningthe engine cooling system is pressur­ ized, particularly when the engine is  warm. when opening the cap, you  could be scalded by hot coolant spray­ ing out. there is a risk of injury.  let the engine cool down before open­ ing the cap. wear eye and hand protec­ tion when opening the cap. open the  cap slowly half a turn to allow pressure  to escape.checking amt oil reservoir  level    the level of the amt oil reservoir level  should be between the ‘min’ and ‘max’  marks on the side of the container. if the  level falls below the ‘min’ mark, add rec­ ommended oil.

windshield  washer  fluid  level    examine if there is washer fluid in the tank.  fill it if necessary. use a good quality  windshield washer fluid, diluted with water  as necessary.notedo not use detergent or any other  additive in the windshield washer  reservoir. this can severely impair  visibility when sprayed on the wind­ shield, and can also damage yourdo not use detergent or any othervehicle’s paint.do not operate washer motor with  no fluid in washer tank, washer  motor will be damagedfor location of windshield washer  container and filling cap, please refer  image of the respective engine com­ partment.batteryexamine the battery for electrolyte  level against the marking on the bat­ tery outer case.examine the battery terminals for cor­ rosion (a white or yellowish powder).  to remove it, wash the terminals with  a solution of baking soda. it will bubble  up and turn brown.when this stops, wash it off with plain  water. dry off the battery with a cloth  or paper towel.apply petroleum jelly to the terminals  to prevent further corrosion.use a proper wrench to loosen and re­ move cables from the terminals.always disconnect the negative (-ve)  cable first and reconnect it last.if your vehicle is equipped with battery  sensor, then disconnect only the sen­ sor output cable. do not remove the  sensor, sensor connector completely  as this will result in the loss of sensor  function temporarily. sensor function­ ality will be restored when the vehicle

is parked for 3 hours without any oper­ ation.clean the battery terminals with a ter­ minal cleaning tool or wire brush.reconnect and tighten the cables, coat  the terminals with petroleum jelly.make sure that the battery is securely  mounted.if you need to connect the battery to a  charger, disconnect both cables to pre­ vent damage to the vehicle’s electrical  system.  if your vehicle is equipped with batterysensor, connect the jump start leads  on output terminal of battery sensor.  do not connect the jump start leads on  sensor surface or battery terminal.  this will result of function loss of bat­ tery sensor. refer the battery sensor  image for do’s and don’ts.noteuse for petrol mt  60ah enhanced flooded battery to be  replaced with enhanced flooded battery  (60 ah) of the respective supplier only.for location of battery, please refer  image of the respective engine com­ partment.noteuse only authorized battery recom­ mended by tata motors. use of any  other unauthorized battery will result  into engine start-stop,intelligent alter­ nator control function detoriation.noteduring normal operation, the battery  generates gas which is explosive in  nature. a spark or open flame can  cause the battery to explode causduring normal operation, the battery

ing very serious injuries.keep all sparks, open flames and  smoking materials away from the  battery.the battery contains sulphuric acid  (electrolyte) which is poisonous and  highly corrosive in nature. getting  electrolyte in your eyes or on the  skin can cause severe burns. wear  protective clothing and a face shield  or have a skilled technician to do the  battery maintenance.ing very serious injuries.keep all sparks, open flames and  smoking materials away from the  battery.the battery contains sulphuric acid  (electrolyte) which is poisonous and  highly corrosive in nature. getting  electrolyte in your eyes or on the  skin can cause severe burns. wear  protective clothing and a face shield  or have a skilled technician to do the  battery maintenance.spark plug (petrol)  for ng na engine  spark plug number gapfederal  mogul  (champion)rer8mc 0.8 to 0.9  mmtightening torque - 25 nmnoteuse spark plug of recommended make  & type for replacement.tyresunder inflation excessive side  tread wearcorrect tyre pres­ sure uniform wearover inflation excessive cen­ ter tread wearinflation  do a check of the tyre pressure and the  tyres condition periodically.  examine the pressure in the tyres when  they are cold.

1,under inflation,excessive side tread wear
2,correct tyre pres­ sure,uniform wear
3,over inflation,excessive cen­ ter tread wear

spark plug,number,gap
federal mogul (champion),rer8mc,0.8 to 0.9 mm

keep the correct pressure in the tyres for  the best combination of riding comfort,  handling, tyre life and optimum perform­ ance.  over inflation of tyres makes the vehicle  ride bumpy and harsh. tyres are more  prone to uneven wear and damage from  road hazards.  under inflated tyres reduce comfort, af­ fects handling and increases the operating  temperature, which can result in failure.  they also cause uneven wear and bring  down the performance of the car.noteevery time you check inflation pressure,  you should also examine tyres for un­ even wear, damage and trapping of for­ eign objects in the treads and wear.

tyre size,front (psi/bar),rear (psi/bar)
185/70 r15 89h,32 psi (2.2 bar),
195/60 r16 89h,,

for 185/70 r15 tyres    with temporary spare wheel  for tyre with temporary spare  wheel (if available)  for 195/60 r16 tyres with temporary  spare wheelnotedo not use spare wheel for tyre ro­ tation, in case of temporary spare  wheel used.do not use spare wheel for tyre ro­two or more temporary tyres should  not be used on one vehicle.two or more temporary tyres shouldtyre pressure of temporary wheel is  to be checked at least once in in a  month.tyre pressure of temporary wheel iswheel covers (if available)    insert a piece of cloth between the spokestake out detached wheel cover from the  wheel rim.  when installing the cover, make sure that  it is positioned so that it does not cover the  air filling valve. apply equal pressure at the  circumference of the wheel cover to fix it  in the wheel rim.notedo not use any sharp tools (such as  screw driver etc.) to remove the wheel  cover.wheel balancing  wheels of your vehicle are balanced for  better ride comfort and longer tyre life. bal­ ancing needs to be done whenever tyre is  removed from rim.warningif the vehicle vibrates abnormally on a  smooth road, have the wheel balanced  done immediately.special care for tubeless tyres  when you remove the tyre and install  •

it back on the rim, take precautions not  to damage tyre bead. use tyre removal  and assembly machines. damage or  cut on tyre bead may cause gradual  loss of air and deflation of tyre.do not scratch the inner surface of  tubeless tyre with metallic or sharp ob­ ject. tubeless tyres are coated with im­ permeable layer of rubber from the  inner surface which holds the air in the  tyre. removal of this layer due to  scratching may cause gradual loss of  air and deflation.if wheel rim gets damaged in service,  get the wheel rim repaired/ replaced  immediately. running the vehicle with  damaged rim may cause deflation of  tyre and subsequent dislodging of tyre  from rim.keep the recommended inflation pres­ sure. over-inflation, in particular, may  cause puncture or bursting of tyre.notelife and wear pattern of tyres depends  on various parameters like tyre pressure, wheel alignment, wheel balanc­ ing, tyre rotation, etc. it also largely de­ pends on vehicle speed, load carried,  usage, driving habits, road conditions,  tyre quality, etc. in case fault is sus­ pected to be due to poor quality of tyres,  the same may be taken up with con­ cerned tyre manufacturer.smart key battery replace­ ment (for peps variant)  procedure:  open rear side of key (battery cover).  1.replace with new battery in the smart  2. key battery slot.ensure that the “+” symbol on the bat­ 3. tery is facing upwards. the correct po­ larity is shown on the battery cover.  close the battery cover.  4.make sure that the key cover is intact  5. properly.

noteuse cr 2032 battery only.an inappropriately dis-posed battery  can be harmful to the environment  and human health. dispose the bat­ tery according to your local law(s)  and regulation.on board diagnostic (obd ii)  system  on board diagnostics or obd, is an auto­ motive term referring to a vehicle’s self-di­ agnostic and reporting capability. the  obd system allows continuous diagnosis  of the components of the vehicle corre­ lated with emissions. this system warns  the driver, by turning “on” the malfunction  indication lamp (mil) on the instrument  cluster, when a fault causes emission lev­ els to increase.  the obd system also has a diagnostic  connector that can be interfaced with ap­ propriate diagnostic tools, which makes it  possible to read the fault codes stored in  the electronic control unit, together with a  series of specific parameters for engine  operation and diagnosis. this check can  also be carried out by the traffic police.on board diagnostic located in engine  compartment fuse box. (refer below  image)location of on board diagnostic (obd ii)

service instructions  the tata punch has been manufactured to give you econom­ ical and trouble free performance. to achieve this, please follow  the instructions as stated.  your vehicle is entitled to three free services (labour only). the  free service coupons are attached to the sales invoice. please  present these coupons to the servicing dealer while availing free  services.1st free service - at 1,000-2,000km. or 2 months, whichever is  earlier.  2nd free service - at 7,000-8,000km. or 6 months, whichever  is earlier.  3rd free service - at 14,500-15,500km. or 12 months, which- ever is earlier.  all services other than free services are chargeable.servicing of the vehicle can be done at any tata motors au­ thorised dealer workshop or tata motors authorised service  centre (tasc).  warranty claims can be settled by any tata motors authorised  dealer workshop or tata motors authorised service centre  (tasc).

service schedulesr.sr.  no. operationgeneral wash the vehicle & clean  condenser finscheck & top up fluids (if re­ quired):  transaxle  oil,q ), coolant, brake fluid, bat­ tery  electrolyte,  windy y, screen washer fluidcheck fuel lines for leak­ agescheck and capture all  dtc’s clear all faults and  erase the codes.check  condition of rubber  bushes/parts in lower con­ trol arms, front and rear coil  spring seats, front & rear  bump stoppers, anti roll bar  links, rear twist  beam,  rub

sr. no.,operation,km,pdi,1500k,7500k,15000,22500,30000,37500,45000,52500,60000,67500,75000,82500,90000,97500,105000,112500,120000,127500,135000,142500,150000
,,months,0,2,6,12,18,24,30,36,42,48,54,60,66,72,78,84,90,96,102,108,114,120
,general,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
1,wash the vehicle & clean condenser fins,every service,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●
2,"check & top up fluids (if re­ quired): transaxle oil, coolant, brake fluid, bat­ tery electrolyte, wind screen washer fluid",every service,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●
3,check fuel lines for leak­ ages,every service,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●
4,check and capture all dtc’s clear all faults and erase the codes.,every service,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●
5,"check condition of rubber bushes/parts in lower con­ trol arms, front and rear coil spring seats, front & rear bump stoppers, anti roll bar links, rear twist beam, rub",7.5k / 6m,,,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●



sr. no.,operation,km,pdi,1500k,7500k,15000,22500,30000,37500,45000,52500,60000,67500,75000,82500,90000,97500,105000,112500,120000,127500,135000,142500,150000
,,months,0,2,6,12,18,24,30,36,42,48,54,60,66,72,78,84,90,96,102,108,114,120
,"ber boots/dust cover/bellow in rack & pinion, steering and suspension ball joints, steering column. replace if necessary. (first at 7.5k / 6m then at every service) (for severe usage, above checks to be done at every 5,000 km or after every se­ vere usage event)",,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
6,check & replace if found damaged - exhaust hanger,30k/24 m,,,,,,●,,,,●,,,,●,,,,●,,,,●
7,check all door latch & striker operations adjust & apply grease if required,15k/12 m,,,,●,,●,,●,,●,,●,,●,,●,,●,,●,,●
8,check for all bolts & nuts,7.5k / 6m,,,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●
,engine (gasoline) na,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
1,clean air filter element (more frequently for vehicle,15k / 12m,,,,●,,●,,●,,●,,●,,●,,●,,●,,●,,●



sr. no.,operation,km,pdi,1500k,7500k,15000,22500,30000,37500,45000,52500,60000,67500,75000,82500,90000,97500,105000,112500,120000,127500,135000,142500,150000
,,months,0,2,6,12,18,24,30,36,42,48,54,60,66,72,78,84,90,96,102,108,114,120
,operating in severe condi­ tion),,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
2,change engine oil and oil filter,15k / 12m,,,,●,,●,,●,,●,,●,,●,,●,,●,,●,,●
3,gasoline - replace gaso­ line fuel filter,75k/60 m,,,,,,,,,,,,●,,,,,,,,,,●
4,change spark plugs - nat­ ural aspirated engine,45k/36 m,,,,,,,,●,,,,,,●,,,,,,●,,
5,"check accessory belt condi­ tion visually, replace if found damage",15k/12 m,,,,●,,●,,●,,●,,●,,●,,●,,●,,●,,●
6,replace air filter element (more frequently for vehicle operating in severe condi­ tion),45k/36 m,,,,,,,,●,,,,,,●,,,,,,●,,
7,change coolant,# 60k/ 36m,,,,,,,,,,●,,,,,,,,●,,,,
,brakes,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
1,check front brake pads &,15k/12m,,,,●,,●,,●,,●,,●,,●,,●,,●,,●,,●



sr. no.,operation,km,pdi,1500k,7500k,15000,22500,30000,37500,45000,52500,60000,67500,75000,82500,90000,97500,105000,112500,120000,127500,135000,142500,150000
,,months,0,2,6,12,18,24,30,36,42,48,54,60,66,72,78,84,90,96,102,108,114,120
,rear brake linings. replace if necessary,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
2,"repalce brake fluid, check brake system com­ ponents for leakages",# 45k / 24m,,,,,,,,●,,,,,,●,,,,,,●,,
3,inspect and if necessary adjust handbrake setting (first check @7.5k/6m then after every 15k/12m),15k / 12m,,,●,●,,●,,●,,●,,●,,●,,●,,●,,●,,●
,wheels & tyres,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
1,"check & adjust wheel align­ ment (for severe usage, above checks to be done at every 5,000 km or after every severe usage event)",# 15k/18 m,,,,●,,●,,●,,●,,●,,●,,●,,●,,●,,●
2,"check for tyre pressure, condition & rotate",# 7.5 k/12m,,,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●

sr.sr.  no. operationtransaxle replace transaxle oil 75k/60 mcheck amt kit oil level, it  should be in between min.  & max. level when the vehi­ cle is in standstill and  ignition on condition. top  up amt kit oil if necessary.electricalcheck specific gravity of  battery electrolyte    7.5k/6m check headlamp focusing 15k/12 m a.c. systemclean filter and check of air- conditioning / hvac system  for satisfactory performance# kms or months whichever occurs earlier.

sr. no.,operation,km,pdi,1500k,7500k,15000,22500,30000,37500,45000,52500,60000,67500,75000,82500,90000,97500,105000,112500,120000,127500,135000,142500,150000
,,months,0,2,6,12,18,24,30,36,42,48,54,60,66,72,78,84,90,96,102,108,114,120
,transaxle,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
1,replace transaxle oil,75k/60 m,,,,,,,,,,,,●,,,,,,,,,,●
2,"check amt kit oil level, it should be in between min. & max. level when the vehi­ cle is in standstill and ignition on condition. top up amt kit oil if necessary.",every service,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●
,electrical,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
1,check specific gravity of battery electrolyte,7.5k/6m,,,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●
2,check headlamp focusing,15k/12 m,,,,●,,●,,●,,●,,●,,●,,●,,●,,●,,●
,a.c. system,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
1,clean filter and check of air- conditioning / hvac system for satisfactory performance,every service,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●,●

vehicle parking for long du­ ration (non - use maintenance)  if you want to park your vehicle at one  place for long duration, following care is to  be taken:park the vehicle in covered, dry and if  1. possible well-ventilated premises. en­ gage a gear.remove the battery terminal cables  2. (first remove the cable from the nega­ tive terminal). ensure that battery is  fully charged.use wheel chocks to prevent move­ 3. ment of the car.clean and protect the painted parts  4. using protective wax.clean and protect the shiny metal  5. parts using commercially available  special compounds.sprinkle talcum powder on the rubber  6. windscreen wiper and lift them off the  glass.  slightly open the windows.  7. cover the vehicle with a cloth or perfo­ 8.of imperforated plastic as they do not  allow moisture on the vehicle body to  evaporate.inflate the tyres to 0.5 bar above the  9. normal specified pressure and check it  at regular intervals.check the battery charge every six  10. weeks.do not drain the engine cooling sys­ 11. tem.

fuel specification  fuel (petrol)  unleaded gasoline conforming to is  2796:2017 is recommended to be used as  fuel. it is always recommended to use cor­ rect fuel to get optimum emission perform­ ance.notealways use petrol of a correct specifica­ tion in a vehicle fitted with catalytic con­ verter. even single fill of leaded petrol  will seriously damage the catalytic con­ verter.



item,specification,company,brand,quantity
engine oil,"0w20, ss6588",castrol,gtx t 0w20,3.5 l
,,exxon mobil,mobil super 3000 tm 0w20,
,,petronas,petronas syntium 7000 tm 0w20,
coolant (premixed) (antifreeze agent + softwater 40:60 ratio),class ii/jis k2234 tata ss7700s1,ansysco,puroblue,4 l
,,sunstar cci,gloden cruiser llc2200np,
,,iocl,tata motors genuine coolant kool plus,
transaxle oil,ep80wll (next gen) tata ss6582,castrol,extreme pressure 80 ep (1lx20),1.8 l
,,petronas,petronas tata motors genuine -gear oil new gen 80 ep ll,
,,iocl,iocl tata motors genuine gear oil 80 wll,
,,mobilube,mobilube gx - a 80w,
brake fluid,"sae j1703, dot4",petronas,tutela brake fluid dot 4,as required
,,sunstar cci,golden cruiser tata genuine brake fluid (dot 4),
,,castrol,optional - castrol- universal brake fluid dot 4,
refrigerant,r-134 a,-,,450 ± 20gm
compressor oil,sp-10,sanden vikas,sp10,120 ± 15 ml



item,specification,company,brand,quantity
amt kit oil,hydraulic oil,petronas,tutela cs – speed,as required



parameter,petrol
engine,
model/type,1.2 revotron petrol na engine mt/amt
capacity,1199 cc
max. engine output,63 kw @ 6000 rpm (86ps @ 6000 rpm)
max. torque,113 nm @ 3300+/-100 rpm
transaxle,
model,ta 65* mt/amt
type,synchromesh with overdrive
no. of gears,"5-forward, 1-reverse"
steering,
type,electric power assisted steering system
brakes,
brakes,front (disc); rear (drum)
parking brake,hand operated (pull to operate) on lhs of driver
suspension,
type,"front: independent, lower wishbone, mcpherson strut with coil spring rear: semi-independent twist beam with coil spring and shock absorber"
shock absorber,hydraulic; gas filled
wheels & tyre,
tyres,option i :195/60 r16 (radial-tubeless);



col0,technical information
parameter,petrol
,option ii :185/70 r15 (radial-tubeless);
wheel rims,option i : 5.5jx15” steel &hyper style wheel option ii : 6jx16” alloy wheel
fuel tank,
capacity,37 litres
cab / body,
type,steel monocoque body
electrical system,
system voltage,"12 v 60ah ( mt) ; 12v,47ah (amt)"
alternator capacity,"13.5 v, 110 a"
battery,"12v,60 ah"
main chassis dimension (in mm),
wheel base,2445
track front,1510
track rear,1510
overall length,3827
overall height,1615
max. width without orvm,1742
max. width with orvm,1945
ground clearance,159 mm (with laden)
performance,
max. speed,155 kmph



parameter,petrol
max. recommended grad­ ability,15.3 deg.
minimum turning circle dia. in meter as per is:12222,10
minimum turning clear­ ance circle dia. in meters,10.6
weight (in kg),
gross vehicle weight (laden),1150 (mt) (pure) 1435 (mt) ; 1440 (amt) (adventurous) 1448 (mt); 1453 (amt) (accomplished) 1460 (mt) (amt) (creative)
kerb weight (unladen),1000 (mt) (pure) 1010 (mt) ; 1015 (amt) (adventurous) 1023 (mt); 1028 (amt) (accomplished) 1035 (mt) (amt) (creative)

vehicle dimensions    h=1615  note: dimensions are in mm and under unladen condition

aggregate  identification  numbers    chassis no. punching near driver seatvin plate location near front passenger  seattransaxle no. punching (ta 65*)engine no. plate

car care  your vehicle is subjected to many external  influences such as climate, road condi­ tions, industrial pollution and proximity to  the sea. these conditions demand regular  care of the vehicle body. dirt, insects, bird  droppings, oil, grease, fuel and stone chip­ pings should be removed as soon as pos­ sible.  washing  following these tips while washing your  vehicle.  always wash your vehicle in shade and  the surface is at room temperature.  wash with mild vehicle wash soap like  ‘car shampoo’ and use a soft bristle  brush, sponge or soft cloth and rinse it fre­ quently while washing to avoid scratches.  to avoid scratches, please wear soft  gloves. remove finger rings, nails, wrist  watch while washing.   to remove stubborn stains and contami­ nants like tar, use turpentine or cleaners  like ‘stain remover’ which are safe for  paint surfaces.avoid substances like petrol, diesel,  kerosene, benzene, thinner, ac-ids or  other solvents that cause damage to paint.  dry your vehicle thoroughly to pre-vent  any damp spots.  rinse all surfaces thoroughly to prevent  any traces of soap and other cleaners as  this may lead to the formation of stains on  the painted surface later.noteavoid parking the car under trees with­ out proper cover, it will reduce the  amount of bird droppings, tree sap and  pollen contact on paint surface. regu­ larly remove the twigs, leaves and veg­ etation near the windshield areas, to  avoid water stagnation.warningdo not direct high pressure washer  fluid/ water jets (pres-sure above 0.5  bar) at electrical devices and connecter  during washing. this is to prevent mal- function / failure of electrical sys-tem  due to water ingress.after drying the vehicle, inspect it for chips  and scratches that could allow corrosion  to start. apply touch up paint where nec­ essary.   cleaning of carpets  vacuum clean the carpet regularly to re­ move dirt. dirt will make the carpet wear  out faster. periodically, shampoo the car­ pet to keep it looking new.  use carpet cleaners (preferably foam  type). follow the instructions that come  with the cleaner. apply it with a sponge or  soft brush. keep the carpeting as dry as  possible by not adding water to the foam.

noteavoid wiping of painted surface in dry  condition as it may leave scratches on  the painted surface.cleaning of windows, front and rear  glasses  clean the windows inside and outside with  commercially available glass cleaners.  this will remove the haze that builds up on  the inside of windows. use a soft cloth or  paper towels to clean all glass and plastic  surfaces.  waxing  waxing and polishing is recommended to  maintain the gloss and wet-look appear­ ance of your paint finish.use good quality polish and wax for  1. your vehicle.re-wax your vehicle when the water  2. does not slip off the surface but col­ lects over the surface in patches.  polishing   polishes and cleaners can restore shine tothe painted surface that has oxidized and  become dull. they normally contain mild  abrasives and sol-vents that remove the  top layer of the finish coat. polish your ve­ hicle, if the finish does not regain its origi­ nal shine after using wax.  interior fabric cleaning tipsstains should be treated immediately.  1. if left for a long time, they can leave a  permanent mark.cleaning the stains immediately is im­ 2. portant especially for stains, which  contain artificial colors in the stain cre­ ating liquid or semisolid substance.  the colorant may leave a stain if kept  for longer time.stain should not be removed by rub­ 3. bing. as far as possible, try to blot or  lift the stain with cloth or plastic spatula  and then clean the remaining stain with  cloth or sponge.if the stain has dried, then gently brush  4. off the material and then press with  damp cloth or sponge till it disappears.  do not use household detergents to  5.always use clean cotton cloth for  6. cleaning.always use clean cotton cloth for  6.paint care  following guidelines will help you to pro­ tect your vehicle from corrosion effectively.noteavoid spillage or direct contact of air  freshener liquid/chemicals with painted  plastic parts. these chemicals may  cause damage to paint like blisters, peel  off, wrinkles etcproper cleaningin order to protect your vehicle from  corrosion it is recommended that you  wash your vehicle thoroughly and fre­ quently in case:there is a heavy accumulation of dirt  and mud especially on the underbody.it is driven in areas having high atmos­ pheric pollution due to smoke, soot,  dust, iron dust and other chemical pol­ lutants.  it is driven in coastal areas.

the underbody must be thoroughly  pressure washed after every three  months.in addition to regularly washing your  • car, the following precautions need to  be taken.  periodic inspectionregularly inspect your vehicle for any  damage in the paint film such as deep  scratches and immediately get them  repaired from an authorized service  outlet, as these defects tend to accel­ erate corrosion.  inspect mud liners for damages.keep all drain holes clear from clog­ • ging.  proper parking  always park your vehicle in shade to pro­ tect it from harsh sunlight or in a well-ven­ tilated garage so that there is no  dampness on any part of the vehicle.  wiper care  to prevent damage to the wipers or wind­ shield, do not operate the wipers when theto prevent damage to the wiper arms and  other components, do not attempt to move  the wipers manuallyfast tag  fast tag is pasted on front windshield  from the inside. it enables electronic toll  collection.notedo not attempt to rip or tamper the tag.  it will disable the functionality of the tag

value care - amc      value care (amc) is a fixed cost maintenance plan that guarantees protection against unexpected repairs  & provides substantial savings through protection against inflation & price volatility of consumables during  the running of the vehicle.  our customers can choose from value care gold, value care silver, promise to protect (p2p) and protect  plus plan as per the requirement & usage to ensure hassle free, reliable & economic maintenance of the  vehicle.  coverage – schedule service and wear & tear.  advantages (customer benefits)  price protection against rising prices of lubes and parts.  • a higher resale value for your vehicle.  • peace of mind with cashless repairs & services.  • vehicle servicing at a workshop of your choice pan india.  • covers repairs including wear & tear parts viz. brakes, suspension, wiper, clutch, brake pads, brake liners etc.  • covers scheduled maintenance services including lubricants, parts, wheel alignment and balancing labour.  • available at unmatched value…. huge savings!!!  • savings on goods & services tax whenever vehicle attend under amc.  • available offers  (types of amc )  silver amc  • gold amc  • promise to protect (p2p)  • protect plus  •

silver amc  value care silver plan covers the following:  scheduled maintenance services at periodic interval of kms for labor, parts & consumables.  • change of oil filter, fuel filter, air filter & sedimenter.  1. change of engine oil, transmission oil.  2. change of coolant, brake oil & clutch fluid*.  3. general checkup, wheel alignment / balancing (excluding balancing weight).  4. washing of vehicle, wheel greasing as applicable.  5. gold amc  the value care gold plan extends your scheduled maintenance cover to include any normal wear and tear items identified during the  scheduled service and other vehicle parts that need to replace during the period of cover arising from proper and uniform usage.  scheduled maintenance services at periodic interval of kms for labor, parts & consumables.   • in addition to coverage mentioned under silver amc, the gold amc also covers repairs or replacement of wear & tear items for  both parts & labour.  brake pads, brake lines, wheel cylinders  1. clutch disc, clutch cover, cables, mountings.  2. suspension bush, wiper blades, auxiliary belt & other wear & tear items  3. washing of vehicle, wheel greasing as applicable.  4. promise to protect (p2p)  value care – promise to protect (p2p) is a maintenance plan that guarantees protection against unexpected wear & tear repairs to  provide substantial saving through protection against inflation & price volatility during the running of the vehicle.  new vehicle (under warranty vehicles) are eligible to avail this offer –identified 13 wear & tear parts listed below including labour is

covered in this amc with the price range of 11 to 14 paisa per km.*applicable to selected models*  list of covered parts  clutch, brake pad, brake linings, brake disc, wiper, wheel cylinder, suspension bushes, engine mountings, ball joints, hoses,  auxiliary belt, (alternator & a/c belt), window winder.  protect plus  the value care protect plus plan extends your scheduled maintenance cover to include coverage of p2p. it covers scheduled main­ tenance services – labour, parts & consumables + identified 13 wear & tear parts of p2p plan including labour  new vehicle (under warranty vehicles) are eligible to avail this offer.*applicable to selected models*.amc is available in the dealership from where you have purchased your vehicle.we strongly recommend purchase of amc at time of purchase of your vehicle to get benefit for coverage of scheduled services  and wear & tear parts.  the dealer service marketing executive shall explain to you the terms and conditions, coverage and owner’s responsibility.  one time payment is to be made to avail amc offer.  p2p & protect plus offer valid on selected models & may vary from model to model, variant to variant.  please read the offer ebooklet for further details about coverage and exclusions of various amcs.  *terms & condition apply.owner’s responsibilityproper use, maintenance and care of the vehicle in accordance with the instructions contained in the owner’s manual and service  booklet. the records of the same to be ensured in owner’s manual.  retention of maintenance service bills.note

i / we have been explained the terms and conditions, coverage and owner’s responsibility by the dealer service marketing execu­ tive.   i wish to avail /    do not wish to avail value care amc policy.          customer’s signature   dealer’s signature

extended warranty      tata motors recommends the purchase of its extended warranty program.  coverage - mechanical + electrical  benefits  insures you against unforeseen break down repair bills.  • documentation is simple and hassle free.   • near cashless & speedy claim   • term  24 + 12 months or 75,000 kms whichever occurs first        or  24 + 24 months or 1,00,000 kms whichever occurs first        or  24 + 36 months or 1,25,000 kms whichever occurs first   extended warranty is available in the dealership from where you have purchased your vehicle.  we strongly recommend purchase of  extended warranty at time of purchase of your vehicle. extended warranty can be availed till warranty period from date of purchase  of vehicle. the dealer service marketing executive shall explain to you the terms and conditions, coverage and owner’s responsi­ bility.  the 12 or 24 or 36 months extended warranty does not follow the 24 months manufacturer’s warranty.  • the extended warranty comes into force once the manufacturer’s warranty expires e.g. after 24 months.  • it is more restrictive as by the time it comes into force the vehicle is already 24 months old. •

what is covered?  mechanical / electrical break down as defined in this warranty and confirmed by the dealer within the stipulated terms and conditions.  tata motors dealer shall either rep air or replace any part found to be defective with a new p art or an equivalent at no cost to the  owner for p arts or labour.  such defective parts which have been replaced will become property of tata motors passenger vehicle limited  comprehensive list of parts covered is mentioned in the extended warranty booklet.  what is not covered?  please refer the extended warranty booklet for details of the exclusion list. soft copy of which will be provided by dealer.  owner’s responsibilityproper use, maintenance and care of the vehicle in accordance with the instructions contained in the owner’s manual and service • booklet. the records of the same to be ensured in owner’s manual. retention of maintenance service bills. • i / we have been explained the terms and conditions, coverage and owner’s responsibility by the dealer service marketing executive.   i wish to avail /    do not wish to avail extended warrant policy.  customer’s signature  dealer’s signature

value added services      why are corrosion protection waxes necessary?   corrosion is caused by  water/salt water, acid rain and atmospheric fallouts.  critical areas are  cavities: joints, crevices, spot welds, underbodycorrosion is the most important factor when we talk about  the vehicle life. if you treat your car well, you can prolong its life.  it is very dangerous to drive around in a corroded vehicle.corrosion creeps onto the vehicle internally and externally as well. the most dangerous kind of corrosion is often not discovered  • until it is too late.  benefits of anti - rust treatment  a professionally applied range of world class products offering real value to the new and used vehicle customer.  •the treatment has been developed to withstand the harshest environmental and climatic conditions (rust. pollutants, stone and  • gravel impact, etc.)  insulates the cabin from external noises..  • expensive tin work, denting and painting can be avoided.  • higher resale value for the vehicle.  • higher safety – uncorroded vehicle  • 10 free checkups available  •   tata motors has tied up with m/s wurth, m/s autokrom, m/s 3m india lt d & m/s bardahl for these world class treatment at af­

fordable prices. these treatments are available in all authorized workshops. the dealer service marketing executive will explain to  you the benefits and terms and conditions of this treatment.  i / we have been explained the benefits, terms and conditions and the prices of these treatments by the dealer service marketing  executive.   i wish to avail /    do not wish to avail extended warrant policy.        customer’s signature  dealer’s signature

vehicle exterior enrichment      why vehicles are painted?  for corrosion protection of the metal surfaces.  • ease of application from other corrosion protection treatments.  • cheaper than other corrosion protection methods eg. galvanizing, anodizing.   • for decoration and identification.  • various environmental hazards affecting paints  environmental hazards: destroys your vehicle’s finish.  even as your new vehicle rolls off the assembly line, the paint is not protected.  the enemy  ultraviolet rays, pollution, tree sap, bird droppings, car wash chemicals, road salt and acid rain.  benefits   vehicle exterior enrichment  removal of medium scratches, orange peel, oxidation, dust nibs etc. & swirl marks from painted surface.  • restoration of original gloss levels, uv protection after gloss is restored.  • cleaning & dressing of tyres, bumpers and all exterior plastic moldings/trims.  • tata motors has tied up with m/s autokrom, m/s 3m & m/s wurth for this world class treatment at affordable prices.  this treatment is available in all authorized workshops. the dealer service marketing executive will explain to you the bene-fits and  terms and conditions of this treatment.

vehicle interior enrichment  why protect your new car’s fabric interior  someone may soil your vehicle’s fabric carpet or seats.  • a significant detractor from your vehicle’s resale value.  • a permanent stain on your vehicle’s interior fabric.  • the enemy  drink spills, food stains, mud, ultraviolet rays, traffic and pets  benefits: vehicle interior enrichment  removal of medium stains and dirt from all interior parts of the car i.e., carpet, upholstery and roof lining.  • cleaning of windshield and all windows (inner and outer surfaces)  • dressing of all internal plastics (e.g.: door pad trims) and rubber parts.  • the treatment involves cleaning and dressing of all parts of the exposed interiors.  • specialised protection for seat fabric from liquid spills.  • tata motors has tied up with m/s wurth and m/s autokrom for this world class treatment at affordable prices. this treatment is  available in all authorized workshops. the dealer service marketing executive will explain to you the benefits and terms and conditions  of this treatment.  i / we have been explained the terms and conditions, coverage and owner’s responsibility by the dealer service marketing executive.    i wish to avail /    do not wish to avail extended warrant policy.    customer’s signature   dealer’s signature



vehicle warranty: terms and  conditions  we warrant each tata punch vehi­ cle and parts thereof manufactured by us  to be free from defect in material and  workmanship subject to the following  terms and conditions:this warranty shall be for a period of 2  1. years from the date of sale of the  car or a mileage of 75,000 kms  whichever occurs earlier.our obligation under this warranty shall  2. be limited to repairing or replacing, free  of charge, such parts of the car which,  in our opinion, are defective, on the car  being brought to us or to our dealers  within the period. the parts so repaired  or replaced shall also be warranted for  quality and workmanship but such war­ ranty shall be co-terminus with this  original warranty.any part which is found to be defective  3. and is replaced by us under the war­ ranty shall be our property.  as for such parts as tyres, batteries,  4.any), etc. not manufactured by us but  supplied by other parties, this warranty  shall not apply, but buyers of the car  shall be entitled to, so far as permissi­ ble by law, all such rights as we may  have against such parties under their  warranties in respect of such parts.this warranty shall not apply if the car  5. or any part thereof is repaired or al­ tered otherwise than in accordance  with our standard repair procedure or  by any person other than from our  sales or service establishments, our  authorized dealers, service centres or  service points in any way so as, in our  judgment which shall be final and bind­ ing, to affect its reliability, nor shall it  apply if, in our opinion which shall be  final and binding, the car is subjected  to misuse, negligence, improper or in­ adequate maintenance or accident or  loading in excess of such carrying ca­ pacity as certified by us, or such serv­ ices as prescribed in our owner’s  manual are not carried out by the  buyer through our sales or service es­ tablishments, our authorized dealers,service centres or service points.this warranty shall not apply to the  6. replacement of normal wear parts,  including without limitation, spark  plugs, drive belts, hoses, wiper  blades, fuses, clutch disc, brake  shoes, brake pads, cables and all  rubber parts (except oil seal and  glass run).this warranty shall not cover any in­ 7. herent normal deterioration of the car  or any of its parts arising from the ac­ tual use of the car or any damage due  to negligent or improper operation or  storage of the car.this warranty shall not apply to normal  8. maintenance services like oils & fluid  changes, head lamps focusing, fas­ tener retightening, wheel balancing  and alignment, tyre rotation, adjust­ ment of valve clearance, fuel timing, ig­ nition timing and consumables like  bulbs, fuel, air & oil filters and gas  leaks in case of air conditioned cars.this warranty shall not apply to any  9. damage or deterioration caused by en­

vironmental pollution or bird droppings.  slight irregularities not recognized as  affecting the function or quality of the  vehicle or parts, such as slight noise or  vibration, defects appearing only under  particular or irregular operations are  items considered characteristics of the  vehicle.this warranty shall be null and void if  10. the car is subjected to abnormal use  such as rallying, racing or participation  in any other competitive sport. this  warranty shall not apply to any repair  or replacements as a result of accident  or collision.this warranty is expressly in lieu of all  11. warranties, whether by law or other­ wise, expressed or implied, and all  other obligations or liabilities on our  part and we neither assume, nor au­ thorize any person to assume on our  behalf, any other liability arising from  the sale of the car or any agreement in  relation thereto.the buyer shall have no other rights  12. except those set out above and have,in particular, no right to repudiate the  sale, or any agreement or to claim any  reduction in the purchase price of the  car, or to demand any damages or  compensation for losses, incidental or  indirect, or inconvenience or conse­ quential damages, loss of car, or loss  of time, or otherwise, incurred or ac­ crued.any claim arising from this warranty  13. shall be recognized only if it is notified  in writing to us or to our authorized  dealer without any delay soon after  such defects as covered & ascertained  under this warranty.this warranty is fully transferable to  14. subsequent vehicle owner. only un­ expired remaining period of war­ ranty applies.  we reserve our rights to make any change  or modification in design of the car or its  parts or to introduce any improvement  therein or to incorporate in the car any ad­ ditional part or accessory at any time with­ out incurring any obligation to incorporate  the same in the cars previously sold.

environmental safety  tata motors passenger vehicle  limited  is  committed  to  pro-duce  vehicles  using  environmentally  sus- tainable technology. a number of features  have been incorporated in tata motors  passenger vehicles which have been de- signed to ensure environmental compati- bility throughout the life cycle of the  vehicle. we would like to inform you that  your vehicle meets bs vi emission norms  and this is being regularly validated at the  manufacturing stages.as a user you too can protect the  environ-ment by operating your vehicle in  a proac-tive manner. a lot depends on  your driving style and the way you  maintain your vehi-cle. we have given  a few tips for your guidance.  drivingg avoid frequent and violent accelera-tion.do not carry any unnecessary weight in the vehicle as it overloads the en- gine. avoid using devices requiring high power consumption during slowdo not carry any unnecessary weightmonitor the vehicle’s fuel consumption regularly and if showing rising trend get the vehicle immediately attended at the company’s authorised service outlets.monitor the vehicle’s fuel consumptionswitch off the engine during long stops at traffic jams or signals. if you need to keep the engine running, avoid unnec- essary revving it or stopping and start- ing.switch off the engine during long stopsit is not necessary to rev the engine before turning it off as it unnecessarily burns fuel.it is not necessary to rev the engineshift to higher gears as soon as it is possible. use each gear upto 2/3rd of its maximum engine speed.shift to higher gears as soon as it isa chart indicating gear shifting speeds is given in this book.a chart indicating gear shifting speedsmaintenanceensure that recommended mainte- nance is carried out on the vehicle reg- ularly at the authorised service outlets.as soon as you see any leakages of oil or fuel in the vehicle we recommend toget it attended immediately.use only recommended grades and specified quantity of lubricants.get your vehicle checked for emission periodically by an  authorised dealer.check air filter, fuel filter and oil filter periodically and replaced, if required, as recommended by tata motors.do not pour used oils or coolants into the sewage drains, garden soil or open streams. dispose the used filters and batteries in compliance with the current legislation.do not allow unauthorized person to tamper with engine settings or to carry modifications on the vehicle.never allow the vehicle to run out of fuel.parts like brake liners, clutch discs should be vacuum cleaned. do not use compressed air for cleaning these parts, which may spread hazardous dust in the atmosphere.

while carrying out servicing or repairs  of your vehicle, you should pay keen  attention to some of the important en­ gine aggregates and wiring harnesses,  which greatly affect emission. these  components are:engine management system (ems)  1. ecu  •ems sensors & corresponding  wiring harnesselectrical connections to all sen­ • sors & actuators  fuel injection system  2. fuel pump  • fuel filter  • fuel injectors  • air intake system  3. air filter & connecting pipes  • exhaust after treatment system  4. catalytic converter  • ignition system  5. ignition coil  • spark plug  •this owner’s manual contains further in­ formation on driving precautions and  maintenance care leading to environment  protection. please familiarize yourself with  these aspects before driving.

pdi coupon pre delivery inspection owner’s name:  vin no.: engine / motor no.: reg. no.: odo reading: date of service: service dealer’s stamp & signature

col0,avail all services to get benefit of warranty,col2



customer’s copy 1st  free service coupon valid for 1000 - 2000 kms. or 2 months,  whichever is earlier owner’s name: vin no.: engine / motor no.: reg. no.: odo reading: date of service: service dealer’s stamp & signature

col0,avail all services to get benefit of warranty,col2



2nd  free service coupon

col0,y t n a r r a w f o it f e n e b t e g o t s e ic v r e s l l a il a v a,col2



customer’s copy 3rd  free service coupon  valid for 14,500 – 15,500 kms. or 12  months, whichever is earliervin no.: engine / motor no.: reg. no.: odo reading: date of service: service dealer’s stamp & signature

col0,avail all services to get benefit of warranty,col2



